Given the context: 'Sociologists have explored the adverse consequences of discrimination [3 – 5];'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: explored	explore V;PST;V.PTCP	explore V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'psychologists have examined the mental processes that underpin conscious and unconscious biases [6];'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: examined	examine V;PST;V.PTCP	examine V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'neuroscientists have examined the neurobiological underpinnings of discrimination [7 – 9];'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: examined	examine V;PST;V.PTCP	examine V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'and evolutionary theorists have explored the various ways that in-group / out-group biases emerged across the history of our species. [10]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: explored	explore V;PST;V.PTCP	explore V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In many respects, researchers already possess a wealth of knowledge concerning the origins and consequences of discrimination and bias. [11]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: possess	possess V;PRS;PL;3	possess V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'What also should not be lost in discussion of discrimination is the growing push to implement social policy aimed at reducing the occurrence of discriminatory practices.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lost	lose V;PST;V.PTCP	lose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Mandatory diversity trainings in professional settings, for example, are intended to reduce bias in the workplace by increasing the awareness of employees regarding the challenges facing minority group members. [12]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: intended	intend V;PST;V.PTCP	intend V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Indeed, the implementation of certain policies is rooted in the assumption that discrimination and biases are, at least to some appreciable amount, present in modern society.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: rooted	root V;PST;V.PTCP	root V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Even so, estimates of the prevalence of perceived discrimination remains rare (see [13 – 14]).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: perceived	perceive V;PST;V.PTCP	perceive V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'At least one prior study by Kessler and colleagues [15], however, using measures of perceived discrimination in a large American sample, reported that approximately 33% of respondents reported some form of discrimination (see also, Gibbons et al. [4]).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: using	use V;PRS;V.PTCP	use V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The current study seeks to build on this research by estimating the prevalence of discrimination experiences among a large, nationally representative sample of adults from the United States.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seeks	seek V;PRS;SG;3	seek V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Additionally, the analysis address the perceived reasons for reported discrimination experiences.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: address	address V;PRS;PL;3	address V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'All respondents who indicated they were discriminated against — specifically, those who responded with sometimes or often to the perceived discrimination measure described above — were asked the following question:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: indicated	indicate V;PST;PL;3	indicate V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: '“What do you think was the main reason for these experiences?”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Respondents were allowed to choose one response from 11 categories.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: allowed	allow V;PST;V.PTCP	allow V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'For the present analysis, these responses were recoded into nine mutually exclusive categories capturing the following options:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recoded	recode V;PST;V.PTCP	recode V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The following categories from the original questionnaire were collapsed into one category for the analysis: race; ancestry or national origin; and shade of skin color.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: following	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Additionally, because this question was only asked of respondents who reported prior discrimination experiences, the built-in skip pattern resulted in a large number of cases scored as missing (legitimate skip).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: asked	ask V;PST;V.PTCP	ask V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Because a race variable is not available from the Wave 4 interviews, we use the racial category reported by the respondent during the Wave 1 interview.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;PRS;1;PL	use V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Wave 1 race — rather than, say, Wave 3 race — was used to preserve case counts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: used	use V;PST;V.PTCP	use V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The logic is that (nearly) all Wave 4 respondents appeared in the Wave 1 sample, but not all would have been interviewed at Wave 3 due to differential patterns of temporary attrition.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appeared	appear V;PST;PL;3	appear V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Respondents were asked to indicate their race from among the following categories: White; Black or African American; Hispanic; American Indian or Native American; and Asian or Pacific Islander.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: asked	ask V;PST;V.PTCP	ask V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Respondents were provided the opportunity to select more than one race, and those who did were asked a follow-up question regarding which category best described their racial background.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provided	provide V;PST;V.PTCP	provide V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the current study, those respondents who indicated more than one race were coded as “mixed race”.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: indicated	indicate V;PST;PL;3	indicate V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'To provide information on the analytical sample as a whole, two additional demographic variables are included.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provide	provide V;NFIN	provide V;NFIN
Given the context: 'First, age is a continuous measure created by subtracting the year of the respondents' birth (obtained from Wave 1) from the year of the interview at Wave 4.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: created	create V;PST;V.PTCP	create V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Second, sex was dichotomously coded based on the self-reported sex of the respondent at Wave 4 (0 = female and 1 = male).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coded	code V;PST;V.PTCP	code V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Our exploratory study included three basic steps.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: included	include V;PST;SG;3	include V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'First, summary statistics of the study variables and racial categories were produced.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: produced	produce V;PST;V.PTCP	produce V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Second, we examined the relative proportions of the two discrimination experience measures across each racial category.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: examined	examine V;PST;1;PL	examine V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'Finally, we assessed the distribution of reported reasons for discrimination across the racial categories.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: assessed	assess V;PST;1;PL	assess V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'In order to examine potential bivariate associations, the adjusted F statistic (design-based F) was employed as it corrects for a complex sample design such as that used in the Add Health. [21]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: examine	examine V;NFIN	examine V;NFIN
Given the context: 'More specifically, when analyzing weighted sample data employing the svy suite of commands in Stata the conventional Pearson χ2 statistic test of independence is converted into “an Fstatistic with noninteger degrees of freedom by using a second-order Rao and Scott (1981 [22], 1984 [23]) correction”. [24]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: analyzing	analyze V;PRS;V.PTCP	analyze V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The p-value associated with the design-based F is thus more accurate (than the associated with the χ2 statistic) given the adjustments and calculations take into account the weighted nature of the data.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: associated	associate V;PST;V.PTCP	associate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This final step also included an examination of the relative distribution of racial categories across the various reported reasons for discrimination.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: included	include V;PST;SG;3	include V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'As noted earlier, all analyses were weighted according to the survey weight provided by the Add Health research staff and standard errors were corrected for the clustering and stratification that defined the sampling strategy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: noted	note V;PST;V.PTCP	note V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Thus, all estimates reported here can be considered nationally representative of the United States.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reported	report V;PST;V.PTCP	report V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This section briefly presents the Gújjolaay Eegimaa (Eegimaa for short; Ethnologue code: ISO 639-3: bqj), its speakers and its varieties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: presents	present V;PRS;SG;3	present V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We also discuss aspects of the contact situation of the Eegimaa language.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: discuss	discuss V;PRS;1;PL	discuss V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'This is important, because as we will show in § 6 below, some of the Eegimaa death prevention names and child-bearing names are given to Eegimaa people from other communities.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: show	show V;NFIN	show V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Eegimaa is a Jóola language spoken in the Basse Casamance area of Southern Senegal by a population estimated to be between 7,000 (Bassène, 2007) and 11,200 speakers (Lewis, Simons, & Fennig, 2014).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: spoken	speak V;PST;V.PTCP	speak V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Jóola languages are classified as members of Sapir’s (1971) BAK group of Atlantic languages of the Niger Congo language phylum.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: classified	classify V;PST;V.PTCP	classify V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Speakers of these languages are found in the Gambia, in the former Casamance region of Southern Senegal and in Guinea Bissau.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The map in Figure 1, taken from Ethnologue, presents the languages of Senegal.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The arrow on the map points to the Eegimaa speaking area (Bandial is the name used by Ethnologue for Eegimaa).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: points	point V;PRS;SG;3	point V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Eegimaa is mainly spoken in Mof-Ávvi, a former kingdom of 10 villages located to the west of Ziguinchor, the capital city of the former administrative region of Casamance in the south of Senegal.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: spoken	speak V;PST;V.PTCP	speak V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Mof-Ávvi is a peninsula bordered by the Casamance River to the north, which separates it from the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny areas, and to the east by the villages Brin and Djibonker, where the speakers of Kujireray and Baïnounk Gubëeher live.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bordered	border V;PST;V.PTCP	border V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the south, the river known as Kamobeul Bolon separates Mof-Ávvi from the Bayot speaking area, while the west side of Mof-Ávvi coincides with the homeland of the Jóola Kaasa Húluf and Jóola Kaasa Ésuulaaluʔ.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: known	know V;PST;V.PTCP	know V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The map in Figure 2 below, adapted from Palmeri and Gazio (1995), shows a very approximate location of Mof-Ávvi in relation to other neighbouring speech communities.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: adapted	adapt V;PST;V.PTCP	adapt V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Some of these communities will be referred to in our discussion of death prevention names in § 6.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: referred	refer V;PST;V.PTCP	refer V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Eegimaa spoken in Mof-Ávvi is known by several names given by speakers of neighbouring languages.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: spoken	speak V;PST;V.PTCP	speak V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'For example, the name Kusiilay 1 ‘the language of Essil’, is the name given by speakers of Kujireray to the Eegimaa language, because Essil, of which Bajjat was a district, is the village which has a border with their village.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Endungo is the name given by Bayot speakers, but its meaning is not known.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Kúlaakiay, ‘the language of village of Seleki/Sállagi’, is the name given by Jóola Kaasa speakers who are more familiar with the village of Seleki/Sállagi’ than all other villages of Mof-Ávvi.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Finally, Banjal/Bandial ‘the language of the village of Banjal’, the most popular of all those names, is the name given by the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny speakers to Eegimaa people and their language, because people from the village of Banjal were the first to be in contact with them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Map of the Eegimaa speaking area'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: speaking	speak V;PRS;V.PTCP	speak V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Village names are written using their usual spelling.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: written	write V;PST;V.PTCP	write V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Ethnologue language codes are provided for language varieties that have them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provided	provide V;PST;V.PTCP	provide V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Language names are written following the recommendation for the transcription of national languages of Senegal, Decree 2005-981.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: written	write V;PST;V.PTCP	write V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Names of the villages of Mof-Ávvi are written using the Eegimaa orthography and following the pronunciation of village names by native speakers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: written	write V;PST;V.PTCP	write V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Jóola language varieties which are closely related to Eegimaa include Kujireray/Kuluunaay (from the village of Brin with 76% lexical similarity) and Gufiñamay (from the village of Afiniam with 74% lexical similarity (based on Lewis et al., 2014 eds.)).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: include	include V;PRS;V.PTCP	include V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'They are located north of the Casamance River in the Jóola Búluf area.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: located	locate V;PST;V.PTCP	locate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There are also small migrant Eegimaa communities in villages like Djifanghor (east of Ziguinchor) and in Bourofaye (south of Ziguinchor), where they cohabit with speakers of Baïnounk languages.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Nowadays most Eegimaa speakers from Mof-Ávvi live outside their homeland, generally in urban areas like Ziguinchor and Dakar.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: live	live V;PRS;PL;3	live V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Speakers of Eegimaa use the term Gújjolaay (meaning Jóola) to refer to their language when they speak to each other, but Eegimaa to distinguish their Jóola variety from that of other Jóola peoples.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;PRS;PL;3	use V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Eegimaa is an endangered language whose transmission to new generations has been declining significantly in the last decades.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: declining	decline V;PRS;V.PTCP	decline V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It is important to understand the contact situation of Eegimaa, because some of the ritual names analysed in this paper come from other languages or from neighbouring communities.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understand	understand V;NFIN	understand V;NFIN
Given the context: 'These names are given either in Eegimaa or in a different language.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'After Bedřich Smetana, he was the next Czech Romantic-era composer to achieve worldwide recognition.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: achieve	achieve V;NFIN	achieve V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Following Smetana's nationalist example, Dvořák frequently employed aspects, specifically rhythms, of the folk music of Moravia and his native Bohemia.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Following	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Dvořák's own style has been described as "the fullest recreation of a national idiom with that of the symphonic tradition, absorbing folk influences and finding effective ways of using them". [1]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: described	describe V;PST;V.PTCP	describe V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Dvořák displayed his musical gifts at an early age, being an apt violin student from age six.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: displayed	display V;PST;SG;3	display V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Seeking recognition beyond the Prague area, he submitted a score of his First Symphony to a prize competition in Germany, but did not win, and the unreturned manuscript was lost until rediscovered many decades later.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Seeking	seek V;PRS;V.PTCP	seek V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In 1874 he made a submission to the Austrian State Prize for Composition, including scores of two further symphonies and other works.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;SG;3	make V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Although Dvořák was not aware of it, Johannes Brahms was the leading member of the jury and was highly impressed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: leading	lead V;PRS;V.PTCP	lead V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The prize was awarded to Dvořák in 1874 [a] and again in 1876 and in 1877, when Brahms and the prominent critic Eduard Hanslick, also a member of the jury, made themselves known to him.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: awarded	award V;PST;V.PTCP	award V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Brahms recommended Dvořák to his publisher, Simrock, who soon afterward commissioned what became the Slavonic Dances, Op. 46.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recommended	recommend V;PST;SG;3	recommend V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'These were highly praised by the Berlin music critic Louis Ehlert in 1878, the sheet music (of the original piano 4-hands version) had excellent sales, and Dvořák's international reputation was launched at last.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: praised	praise V;PST;V.PTCP	praise V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Dvořák's first piece of a religious nature, his setting of Stabat Mater, was premiered in Prague in 1880.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: premiered	premier V;PST;V.PTCP	premiere V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It was very successfully performed in London in 1883, leading to many other performances in the United Kingdom and United States. [2]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: performed	perform V;PST;V.PTCP	perform V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In his career, Dvořák made nine invited visits to England, often conducting performances of his own works.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;SG;3	make V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'His Seventh Symphony was written for London.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: written	write V;PST;V.PTCP	write V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Visiting Russia in March 1890, he conducted concerts of his own music in Moscow and Saint Petersburg. [3]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Visiting	visit V;PRS;V.PTCP	visit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In 1891 Dvořák was appointed as a professor at the Prague Conservatory.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appointed	appoint V;PST;V.PTCP	appoint V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In 1890 – 91, he wrote his Dumky Trio, one of his most successful chamber music pieces.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wrote	write V;PST;SG;3	write V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In 1892, Dvořák moved to the United States and became the director of the National Conservatory of Music of America in New York City.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: moved	move V;PST;SG;3	move V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'While in the United States, Dvořák wrote his two most successful orchestral works: the Symphony From the New World, which spread his reputation worldwide, [4] and his Cello Concerto, one of the most highly regarded of all cello concerti.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He also wrote his most appreciated piece of chamber music, the American String Quartet, during this time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wrote	write V;PST;SG;3	write V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'But shortfalls in payment of his salary, along with increasing recognition in Europe and an onset of homesickness, led him to leave the United States and return to Bohemia in 1895.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: increasing	increase V;PRS;V.PTCP	increase V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'All of Dvořák's nine operas but his first have librettos in Czech and were intended to convey Czech national spirit, as were some of his choral works.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;PL;3	have V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Among his smaller works, the seventh Humoresque and the song "Songs My Mother Taught Me" are also widely performed and recorded.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Taught	take V;PST;SG;3	Teach V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He has been described as "arguably the most versatile ... composer of his time". [5]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: described	describe V;PST;V.PTCP	describe V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Jens Otto Harry Jespersen or Otto Jespersen (Danish: [ʌtˢo ˈjɛsb̥ɐsn̩]; 16 July 1860 – 30 April 1943) was a Danish linguist who specialized in the grammar of the English language.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: specialized	specialize V;PST;SG;3	specialize V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Otto Jespersen was born in Randers in Jutland.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: born	bear V;PST;V.PTCP	bear V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He was inspired by the work of Danish philologist Rasmus Rask as a boy, and with the help of Rask's grammars taught himself some Icelandic, Italian, and Spanish.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: inspired	inspire V;PST;V.PTCP	inspire V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He entered the University of Copenhagen in 1877 when he was 17, initially studying law but not forgetting his language studies.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: entered	enter V;PST;SG;3	enter V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In 1881 he shifted his focus completely to languages, and in 1887 earned his master's degree in French, with English and Latin as his secondary languages.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shifted	shift V;PST;SG;3	shift V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He supported himself during his studies through part-time work as a schoolteacher and as a shorthand reporter in the Danish parliament.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: supported	support V;PST;SG;3	support V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In 1887 – 1888, he traveled to England, Germany and France, meeting linguists like Henry Sweet and Paul Passy and attending lectures at institutions like Oxford University.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: traveled	travel V;PST;SG;3	travel V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Following the advice of his mentor Vilhelm Thomsen, he returned to Copenhagen in August 1888 and began work on his doctoral dissertation on the English case system.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Following	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He successfully defended his dissertation in 1891.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: defended	defend V;PST;SG;3	defend V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Jespersen was a professor of English at the University of Copenhagen from 1893 to 1925, and served as Rector of the university in 1920 – 21.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: served	serve V;PST;SG;3	serve V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'His early work focused primarily on language teaching reform and on phonetics, but he is best known for his later work on syntax and on language development.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: focused	focus V;PST;SG;3	focus V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He advanced the theories of Rank and Nexus in Danish in two papers: Sprogets logik (1913) and De to hovedarter af grammatiske forbindelser (1921).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: advanced	advance V;PST;SG;3	advance V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Jespersen in this theory of ranks removes the parts of speech from the syntax, and differentiates between primaries, secondaries, and tertiaries; e.g. in "well honed phrase," "phrase" is a primary, this being defined by a secondary, "honed", which again is defined by a tertiary "well".'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: removes	remove V;PRS;SG;3	remove V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'The term Nexus is applied to sentences, structures similar to sentences and sentences in formation, in which two concepts are expressed in one unit; e.g., it rained, he ran indoors.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: applied	apply V;PST;V.PTCP	apply V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This term is qualified by a further concept called a junction which represents one idea, expressed by means of two or more elements, whereas a nexus combines two ideas.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: qualified	qualify V;PST;V.PTCP	qualify V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Junction and nexus proved valuable in bringing the concept of context to the forefront of the attention of the world of linguistics.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: proved	prove V;PST;PL;3	prove V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'He was most widely recognized for some of his books.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recognized	recognize V;PST;V.PTCP	recognize V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Language: Its Nature, Development and Origin (1922) is considered by many to be his masterpiece.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: considered	consider V;PST;V.PTCP	consider V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles (1909 – 1949), concentrated on morphology and syntax, and Growth and Structure of the English Language (1905) is a comprehensive view of English by someone with another native language, and still in print, over 70 years after his death and more than 100 years after publication.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: concentrated	concentrate V;PST;V.PTCP	concentrate V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Late in his life he published Analytic Syntax (1937), in which he presents his views on syntactic structure using an idiosyncratic shorthand notation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: published	publish V;PST;SG;3	publish V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In The Philosophy of Grammar (1924) he challenged the accepted views of common concepts in Grammar and proposed corrections to the basic definitions of grammatical case, pronoun, object, voice etc., and developed further his notions of Rank and Nexus.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: challenged	challenge V;PST;SG;3	challenge V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In the 21st century this book is still used as one of the basic texts in modern Structural linguistics.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: used	use V;PST;V.PTCP	use V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Mankind, Nation and Individual: from a linguistic point of view (1925) is one of the pioneering works on Sociolinguistics.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pioneering	pioneer V;PRS;V.PTCP	pioneer V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Jespersen visited the United States twice:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: visited	visit V;PST;SG;3	visit V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'he lectured at the Congress of Arts and Sciences in St. Louis in 1904, and in 1909 – 1910 he visited both the University of California and Columbia University.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lectured	lecture V;PST;SG;3	lecture V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'While in the U.S., he took occasion to study the country's educational system.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;3	take V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'His autobiography (see below) was published in English translation as recently as 1995.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;IMP;2	see V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'Jespersen was a proponent of phonosemanticism and wrote:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wrote	write V;PST;SG;3	write V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: '“Is there really much more logic in the opposite extreme which denies any kind of sound symbolism (apart from the small class of evident echoisms and ‘onomatopoeia’) and sees in our words only a collection of accidental and irrational associations of sound and meaning? ...'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Is	deny V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'There is no denying that there are words which we feel instinctively to be adequate to express the ideas they stand for.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: is	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'After his retirement in 1925, Jespersen remained active in the international linguistic community.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remained	remain V;PST;SG;3	remain V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In addition to continuing to write, he convened and chaired the first International Meeting on Linguistic Research in Geneva in 1930, and acted as president of the Fourth International Congress of Linguists in Copenhagen in 1936.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continuing	continue V;PRS;V.PTCP	continue V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He was an early supporter of the Esperanto offshoot Ido and in 1927 published his own project Novial.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: published	publish V;PST;SG;3	publish V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He also worked with the International Auxiliary Language Association.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: worked	work V;PST;SG;3	work V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Jespersen received honorary degrees from Columbia University in New York (1910), St. Andrews University in Scotland (1925), and the Sorbonne in Paris (1927).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: received	receive V;PST;SG;3	receive V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He was one of the first six international scholars to be elected as honorary members of the Linguistic Society of America.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: elected	elect V;PST;V.PTCP	elect V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Are you — do they still teach at Bahia on Sunday?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: teach	teach V;NFIN	teach V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In fact I would have gone today, if it wasn't for my back.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gone	go V;PST;V.PTCP	go V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Well I finally found some people there I can dance with.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;1	find V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'So that helps.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: helps	help V;PRS;SG;3	help V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Do you need a partner?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: need	need V;NFIN	need V;NFIN
Given the context: 'To go there?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Besides, you, I mean if you're a guy, if —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'If you're a woman, I mean, those guys'll be all over you.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I swear it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: swear	swear V;PRS;SG;1	swear V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Don't say that, Harold's in the room.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: say	say V;IMP;2	say V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Run along now, dear.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Run	run V;IMP;2	run V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You could come too.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: come	come V;NFIN	come V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well I don't necessarily mean, in a bad way, even though I'm sure there are a few there, I'm not dancing with guys.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;NFIN	mean V;NFIN
Given the context: 'All I can say is, the women aren't all over me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: say	say V;NFIN	say V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But, but I remember, like I went there with this person, it's kind of funny.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remember	remember V;PRS;SG;1	remember V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Th- this person did not want to dance.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;NFIN	want V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So she's just gonna watch.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So, every once in a while I'd get up and dance, and it's like, when I'd come back, I mean there was some guy there, sitting in my chair.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: get	get V;NFIN	get V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Every time I got up.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;SG;1	get V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I'm thinking, God these guys don't waste any time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thinking	think V;PRS;V.PTCP	think V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I mean, you turn your back and there's somebody moving in.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I mean I don't know if they —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Maybe Harold you should come with me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: come	come V;NFIN	come V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Learn some lam- lambada.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Learn	learn V;IMP;2	learn V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'So I can find — find some girls with empty chairs next to em?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;NFIN	find V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Maybe I should go with Miles.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well I don't know if I told you, told you that story about that woman, who uh, went after that guy there?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;NFIN	know V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I told you that story, right?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;SG;1	tell V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Uh, after the class is over w- over with, I'm sitting down at a table, there's a woman from — who was in the class, and two men, sitting to my right, is a table with two women there.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sitting	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'They had apparently just come from Oba Oba.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: come	come V;PST;V.PTCP	come V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Oh I think you told me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;SG;1	think V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'And like, well they were attractive women, the one had on a real real short skirt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Anyway, there was this guy in his fifties, out there dancing, by himself.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: was	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And the woman was just looking at him, making eyes, then she went out there, got on her knees, in front of him, in this skirt that's this short, takes her hands, and goes along his toes, and then up, and is just doing like that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looking	look V;PRS;V.PTCP	look V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I figured, oh, they must know each other.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: figured	figure V;PST;SG;1	figure V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'That's what I assumed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: assumed	assume V;PST;SG;1	assume V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'And, they did that for the whole dance, and I mean, she was d- all kind of suggestive stuff, and touching him and everything, people would like cheering, and clapping, "go for it".'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: did	do V;PST;PL;3	do V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The – the song ended, the guy set down, at another table.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ended	end V;PST;SG;3	end V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And she set down —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: set	set V;PST;SG;3	sit V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'They never danced again the rest of the evening.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: danced	dance V;PST;PL;3	dance V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'This is like — so I was thinking, this woman's sitting about as far away from me as Jamie is.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thinking	think V;PRS;V.PTCP	think V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And I was thinking, hm, this is interesting.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thinking	think V;PRS;V.PTCP	think V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I wonder how long it was gonna take the guys in this club to move in on her.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wonder	wonder V;PRS;SG;1	wonder V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'No sooner did I think this thought, guys were over there.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'What, you didn't ask her to dance?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ask	ask V;NFIN	ask V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well I was still trying to figure out, surely they must know each other, I mean, why wasn't he sitting at her table?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: trying	try V;PRS;V.PTCP	try V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You mean, you were still thinking about it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;2	mean V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Anyway, this guy, I mean he comes over there, immediately afterwards —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'The same guy who got his — the same guy who's —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;SG;3	get V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'No, a random guy, who was like sitting about where you are.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sitting	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He was sitting there, there were two guys sitting at a table right where you are.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sitting	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And then these two women are sitting here.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sitting	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP	sit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So uh, he comes over there, and is talking with that woman I don't know about what, but then like ten minutes later, she and her friend are over at their table.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: comes	come V;PRS;SG;3	come V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You know, kissing, et cetera, et cetera.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;2	know V;PRS;2;PL
Given the context: 'And I was thinking, it looks like these people aren't going home alone tonight.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thinking	think V;PRS;V.PTCP	think V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But I just thought that —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thought	think V;PST;SG;1	think V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'No wonder they forbid this dance.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: forbid	forbid V;PRS;PL;3	forbid V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Well, maybe I shouldn't go there then.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Sam has been, has taken such an interest in this retirement bit that it — it really surprises me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Well she's begun to listen.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: begun	begin V;PST;V.PTCP	begin V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You know.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;2	know V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Uh, she used to go over and read a book or something.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: used	use V;PST;SG;3	use V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Yeah, or turn a deaf ear.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: turn	turn V;IMP;2	turn V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'But uh, once you understand it, you know, you, you're interested in getting right in, and going after it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understand	understand V;PRS;SG;2	understand V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'I really oughta call, at least Reg Barr, and ask if uh, he's still speaking to me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: call	call V;PST;SG;1	call V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well, he came over to you all smiles, I noticed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: came	come V;PST;SG;3	come V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Well, we've known each other for thirty-some years, why wouldn't he?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: known	know V;PST;V.PTCP	know V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But a- anyway, um, I was so glad that he opened up on this disclosure bit.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: opened	open V;PST;SG;1	open V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Because it was Burns that's been objecting to our having it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: objecting	object V;PRS;V.PTCP	object V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And I knew this.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: knew	know V;PST;SG;1	know V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'So when he opened up on that, and she followed through, and told about her husband, you know?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: opened	open V;PST;SG;3	open V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Not necessarily that she would approve of it, but at least she wasn't disapproving.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: approve	approve V;NFIN	approve V;NFIN
Given the context: 'And I – I cannot get over this.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: get	get V;NFIN	get V;NFIN
Given the context: 'And you know, he must have been thinking, when he said he wasn't a political appointee, he must have been associating his relationship with Steitler.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;2	know V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'I really do believe that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believe	believe V;NFIN	believe V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I don't know how else he could have done it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;NFIN	know V;NFIN
Given the context: 'That topples over.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: topples	topple V;PRS;SG;3	topple V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Um, but he didn't say that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: say	say V;NFIN	say V;NFIN
Given the context: 'He said, I loved your hum- humor, uh, and I love you, but, I am not a political appointee.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And his eyes were just snapping.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: snapping	snap V;PRS;V.PTCP	snap V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And I said, Oh? How did you get on the board?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;1	say V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Well he said, I got a letter from the governor, asking.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The point was, I could have mentioned what was in the paper about him, that he was related and, you know, had business with Steitler, and I just said, and there's Doctor Duvall, you know?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mentioned	mention V;PST;V.PTCP	mention V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And then I went to Rotus, who's a seasoned politician, if there ever was one.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: went	go V;PST;SG;1	go V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'He just would flare.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: flare	flare V;NFIN	flare V;NFIN
Given the context: 'And I said, well, I – alright.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;1	say V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I said, I'll apologize next time, and I'm gonna make hay out of it, don't you worry.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;1	say V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I wanna know how you birds got on that board, if you're not political appointees.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wan	want V;PRS;SG;1	want V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Can I grow some basil?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: grow	grow V;NFIN	grow V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Yes, that's how I've –'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: 've	ve V;PRS;SG;1	have V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I don't have any this year, but I've grown it other years.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'There's no proble-.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: 's	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It will not take any frost.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;NFIN	take V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I l- I learned that one time the –'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learned	learn V;PST;SG;1	learn V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I learned it just went down.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learned	learn V;PST;SG;1	learn V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Well, I think it was Barbara that has some seeds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;SG;1	think V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'It comes right up.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: comes	come V;PRS;SG;3	come V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Isn't that what you gave the neighbor one time?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gave	give V;PST;SG;2	give V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'You gave him some kind of herb.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gave	give V;PST;SG;2	give V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Did I give him some?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: give	give V;NFIN	give V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I gave him a red pepper.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gave	give V;PST;SG;1	give V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I think you – I think you gave him some herb of some kind.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;SG;1	think V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I may have given – given him some basil, yes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I don't have any this year, I forgot to plant it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I have oregano.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;1	have V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'A good stand of it, if you want any.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;PL
Given the context: 'I have a lot of dried or- oregano.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;1	have V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'You smoked it down into the cork, didn't you?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: smoked	smoke V;PST;SG;2	smoke V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'You smoked it down into the cork.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: smoked	smoke V;PST;SG;2	smoke V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Well, yeah, you don't like that, do you, but –'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;NFIN	like V;NFIN
Given the context: 'No, it chokes me to death.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: chokes	choke V;PRS;SG;3	choke V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It's – it's there, might as well smoke it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: smoke	smoke V;NFIN	smoke V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Mr. Chief Justice, may it please the Court:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: please	please V;NFIN	please V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In September 1975 the Petitioner was arrested when he tried to steal a coat from a department store.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: arrested	arrest V;PST;V.PTCP	arrest V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Six months later he was brought to trial on a charge of attempted petty larceny.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: brought	bring V;PST;V.PTCP	bring V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Had Petitioner pled guilty to that offense or been convicted of it after trial, he could have received a maximum sentence of one year in jail.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pled	plee V;PST;V.PTCP	plead V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He would have been released, at the very latest, in September of 1976.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: released	release V;PST;V.PTCP	release V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But Petitioner did not plead guilty and was not convicted.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: plead	plead V;NFIN	plead V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Instead, he raised an insanity defense, claiming that because he was mentally ill at the time he tried to steal the coat he should not be blamed for his act.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: raised	raise V;PST;SG;3	raise V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The Government did not contest this claim and the trial court found, after a stipulated trial, that the Petitioner was not guilty by reason of insanity.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: contest	contest V;NFIN	contest V;NFIN
Given the context: 'On the basis of this acquittal and on this basis alone, the Petitier was -- Petitioner was ordered committed indefinitely to a mental hospital.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ordered	order V;PST;V.PTCP	order V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'That is, he was ordered confined until he could prove that he was not mentally ill and dangerous.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ordered	order V;PST;V.PTCP	order V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'P- Petitioner still remains confined in the hospital on the basis of that commitment, even though more than seven years have now passed since his initial incarceration and more than six years have passed since the time he would have necessarily been released had he been convicted rather than acquitted.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remains	remain V;PRS;SG;3	remain V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Conceivably, he will remain committed in the hospital for the rest of his life.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remain	remain V;NFIN	remain V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Petitioner contends that whatever the validity of his kinitial commitment to the hospital, once he had been confined there for longer than he could have been incarcerated upon conviction, his commitment became an indefinite one.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: contends	contend V;PRS;SG;3	contend V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And thus, the Government was constitutionally required to prove the need for his commitment by clear and convincing evidence, something which the Government has yet to do with respect to Mr. Jones.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: required	require V;PST;V.PTCP	require V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If it cannot do so now, Petitioner submits, he is entitled to release.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: do	do V;NFIN	do V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Mr. Wasserstrom, you're not challenging, as I understand it, the -- the initial commitment.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: challenging	challenge V;PRS;V.PTCP	challenge V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The only question, if I understand your position correctly, that you raise is whether he must be released at the time that the sentence period would have expired under the criminal statute, is that right?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understand	understand V;PRS;SG;1	understand V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Our position is, Your Honor, that he has to be released at that time unless the Government can at that time prove his commitability by the standards required.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And you are not challenging, then, the, uh, standard or burden of proof at the time of his commitment?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: challenging	challenge V;PRS;V.PTCP	challenge V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It's our position that that question is not raised in this case.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: raised	raise V;PST;V.PTCP	raise V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Um, there are arguable justifications for that initial commitment, and we don't discuss one way or another whether those justifications are sufficient to validate that initial commitment and we don't think the Court need reach that question.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Whatever reasons there are that might have init- -- have vali- -- have justified his initial commitment, those reasons would have justified only a commitment that could have lasted, without the Government meeting a burden of proof, for as long as he could have been incarcerated upon conviction --'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'If his initial commitment is not punitive, then how is the statutory period of, uh, time that he could serve on the criminal charge relevant?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: serve	serve V;NFIN	serve V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well, we think the only justifications that could, the only justifications that could, um, that could countenance that initial commitment are punitive in nature, that is, are a kind of punitive rationale.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;1;PL	think V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'And so, to -- for us to agree with your position we would have to conclude that his initial commitment was punitive?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: agree	agree V;NFIN	agree V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well, Your Honor, I don't think that it's terribly important whether the word "punitive" is used, but I do think that any kinds of justifications which would justify the initial commitment are what I would call backward looking justifications, that is, justifications that do turn on the fact that he, it -- was found to have committed a criminal act beyond a reasonable doubt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'And whether they're treated as purely punitive or not doesn't seem to me is, is, is, is important, or the label that we attach to them it doesn't seem to me is important.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: treated	treat V;PST;V.PTCP	treat V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The point is, though, those rationales all do turn on the nature of his act, and his act is one which, we submit, justifies confinement only for a year.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: turn	turn V;NFIN	turn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But hasn't this Court, as well as the United States Court of Appeals in the D.C. Circuit, said there's no rational connection between the possible sentence and the possible length of stay after an acquittal, not guilty by reason of insanity?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I believe that the law in the United States Court of Appeals in Brown against the United States and in Wade v. Jacobs, in both of those cases the Court suggested that there is a relationship between the sentence that might have been imposed and the length that the commitment can persist without the Government proving, uh, proving commitability under civil commitment standards.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believe	believe V;PRS;SG;1	believe V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I don't think that this Court has, has uh, has addressed that question, and I then think this is the first case that raises it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Oh, the Court has said expressly that there's no connection, in one case some time ago.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;V.PTCP	say V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Well, excuse me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: excuse	excuse V;IMP;2	excuse V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Well, it is true in Lynch v. Overholser this Court suggested certain, uh, rationales for a commitment, but it didn't then go on to say whether those rationales were ones which would justify an indefinite commitment or simply one that would persist as long as the sentence that might have been imposed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: suggested	suggest V;PST;SG;3	suggest V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And it's our view that those rationales, whether you call them punitive or not, are, are all ones which evaporate once the accou- -- once the insanity acquittee has been confined for as long as he could have been confined if he had been convicted.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: call	call V;PRS;SG;2	call V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Does your position depend at all on whether or not the initial crime was a crime of violence?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: depend	depend V;NFIN	depend V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Uh, suppose this had been a street mugging, for example?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: suppose	suppose V;IMP;2	suppose V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Well, of course, the more serious the crime, the longer the maximum sentence that could have been imposed and the more distant, uh, the rights that we're talking about, the more distant in time the rights we're talking about would become available.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: imposed	impose V;PST;V.PTCP	impose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Chief Justice Kennedy and may it please the Court.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: please	please V;NFIN	please V;NFIN
Given the context: 'My name is Eric Levi and I'm arguing for appellant Darnell Hurt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: arguing	argue V;PRS;V.PTCP	argue V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Uh, attorney John Martin will be arguing the rebuttal, and we'd reserve five minutes of time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: arguing	argue V;PRS;V.PTCP	argue V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Your honors, if I may, I'd like to start by addressing proposition of law number three.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;NFIN	like V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In proposition of law number three, we have an ultimate finding of fact which was resolved in favor of Darnell Hurt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Darnell Hurt had asked for the provocation mitiger- mitigator to apply to all offenses which he was charged, which includes the felonious assault, and indirectly then he also requested it, um, for the felony murder charge as well.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: asked	ask V;PST;V.PTCP	ask V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We believe that on retrial, collateral estoppel would prevent retrial without regard for the jury's prior finding in Hurt's favor, that ther- that the provocation mitigator existed, that he was acting under serious provocation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believe	believe V;PRS;1;PL	believe V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'In fact, at the trial, the State, and it can be found in the transcript at pages 774 and 775, admitted as much and conceded so in its closing argument by stating to the jury that the victim was coming into this apartment.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He was coming in hot and he pulled out his firearm.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coming	come V;PRS;V.PTCP	come V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And here comes Melvin Dobson arriving at the scene to the rescue of his daughter.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: comes	come V;PRS;SG;3	come V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And that incenses him, Hurt, to the point where he uses deadly force.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: incenses	incense V;PRS;SG;3	incense V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And then they said, if you apply all the factors, that's voluntary manslaughter.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;PL;3	say V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'That's where this count applies.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: applies	apply V;PRS;SG;3	apply V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'The State of Ohio had then directed the jury to find these provocation mitigators, which it did.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: directed	direct V;PST;V.PTCP	direct V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In looking at Green versus United States and the courts, the high court out of the state of Texas and the federal circuits in Kennedy versus Washington on this constitutional issue, I believe that the authority uh exists to find that collateral estoppel would preclude the defendant from having to prove these mitigators a second time to a different jury because he preserved the issue by requesting the jury instruction for the mitigators on all of the applicable counts, and he didn't request that the jury -- or concede to permit the jury to be discharged without considering those mitigators, when the jury didn't consider them and the additional counts, it acted almost as an applied acquittal or an applied um finding towards this affirmative defense.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looking	look V;PRS;V.PTCP	look V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The high court in Texas in ex parte Jimmy Dean Watkins agreed with that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: agreed	agree V;PST;SG;3	agree V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And it indicated that in any additional trial, once a jury finds those provocation mitigators, that it can't be required to find them again.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: indicated	indicate V;PST;SG;3	indicate V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Additionally, in the Kennedy versus Washington uh matter, the Federal Circuit Court stated that the Green versus United States implied acquittal would generally apply in cases where the provocation mitigator was at issue.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stated	state V;PST;SG;3	state V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It was addressed and argued by both sides, and the jury was asked to make a finding.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: addressed	address V;PST;V.PTCP	address V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Here the jury made the finding.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;SG;3	make V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It made a specific finding for the provocation mitigator.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;SG;3	make V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And while it didn't find it on each and every specific count, that was solely because the instruction wasn't given even though requested.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;NFIN	find V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Counsel, um, shouldn't the arguments related to Proposition three B, are they ripe for for ruling?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: related	relate V;PST;V.PTCP	relate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Shouldn't these arguments be made at the -- at the trial court, given the fact that this was remanded?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;V.PTCP	make V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So, Your Honor, this was remanded for a retrial and it's remanded on the grounds of double jeopardy through the prong of collateral estoppel.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remanded	remand V;PST;V.PTCP	remand V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And under double jeopardy, not only is an individual precluded from being convicted twice, or to stand trial twice for an offense, he was already acquitted of, he's also precluded from having to actually stand trial to go back to trial for a second time when the acquittal was already made.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: precluded	preclude V;PST;V.PTCP	preclude V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In this case, it's a finding of fact under collateral estoppel, but it amounts to an affirmative defense to acquit him of the murder, essentially.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: amounts	amount V;PRS;SG;3	amount V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Um, so where the murderer was already negated by the findings for the -- the mitigators, we believe that it is ripe at this point um prior to new trial, that this court rule on this and preclude um the trial court from requiring that he face the murder charges again.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: negated	negate V;PST;V.PTCP	negate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I mean, how can they be ripe?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'The proble-, uh, excuse me, the uh -- the self defense issues uh we believe are ripe first and foremost in proposition.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: excuse	excuse V;IMP;2	excuse V;NFIN;2
Given the context: '41: The Politics of Fear: How It Manipulates Us to Tribalism (Javanbakht)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Manipulates	manipulate V;PRS;SG;3	manipulate V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'President Barack Obama walks away from the lectern with Vice President Joe Biden after making a statement about the mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., June 16, 2016.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: walks	walk V;PRS;SG;3	walk V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'The cruel murder of 50 people in New Zealand was another tragic reminder of how humans are capable of heartlessly killing their own kind just based on what they believe, how they worship, and what race or nationality they belong to.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: killing	kill V;PRS;V.PTCP	kill V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There is a longstanding history of the fear of “the others” turning humans into illogical ruthless weapons, in service to an ideology.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: is	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It is deeply ingrained in the living organisms that have survived extinction through billions of years of evolution.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ingrained	ingrain V;PST;V.PTCP	ingrain V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Demagogues have always used fear for intimidation of the subordinates or enemies, and shepherding the tribe by the leaders.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: used	use V;PST;V.PTCP	use V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Fear is a very strong tool that can blur humans’ logic and change their behavior.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: blur	blur V;NFIN	blur V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I am a psychiatrist and neuroscientist specializing in fear and trauma, and I have some evidence-based thoughts on how fear is abused in politics.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: specializing	specialize V;PRS;V.PTCP	specialize V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We learn fear from tribe mates'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learn	learn V;PRS;1;PL	learn V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Like other animals, we humans can learn fear from experience, such as being attacked by a predator.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learn	learn V;NFIN	learn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We also learn from observation, such as witnessing a predator attacking another human.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learn	learn V;PRS;1;PL	learn V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'And, we learn by instructions, such as being told there is a predator nearby.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learn	learn V;PRS;1;PL	learn V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Learning from our conspecifics – members of the same species – is an evolutionary advantage that has prevented us from repeating dangerous experiences of other humans.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Learning	learn V;PRS;V.PTCP	learn V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We have a tendency to trust our tribe mates and authorities, especially when it comes to danger.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'It is adaptive: Parents and wise old men told us not to eat a special plant, or not to go to an area in the woods, or we would be hurt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;PL;3	tell V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'By trusting them, we would not die like a great-grandfather who died eating that plant.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: trusting	trust V;PRS;V.PTCP	trust V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This way we accumulated knowledge.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: accumulated	accumulate V;PST;1;PL	accumulate V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'There has always been competition between groups of humans in different ways and with different faces, from brutal wartime nationalism to a strong loyalty to a football team.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: been	be V;PST;V.PTCP	be V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Evidence from cultural neuroscience shows that our brains even respond differently at an unconscious level simply to the view of faces from other races or cultures.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shows	show V;PRS;SG;3	show V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'At a tribal level, people are more emotional and consequently less logical: Fans of both teams pray for their team to win, hoping God will take sides in a game.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pray	pray V;PRS;PL;3	pray V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'On the other hand, we regress to tribalism when afraid.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: regress	regress V;PRS;1;PL	regress V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'This is an evolutionary advantage that would lead to the group cohesion and help us fight the other tribes to survive.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lead	lead V;NFIN	lead V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Tribalism is the biological loophole that many politicians have banked on for a long time: tapping into our fears and tribal instincts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: banked	bank V;PST;V.PTCP	bank V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The typical pattern is to give the other humans a different label than us, and say they are going to harm us or our resources, and to turn the other group into a concept.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: give	give V;NFIN	give V;NFIN
Given the context: 'It does not have to necessarily be race or nationality, which are used very often.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The list goes on and on.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: goes	go V;PRS;SG;3	go V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'When building tribal boundaries between “us” and “them,” some politicians have managed very well to create virtual groups of people that do not communicate and hate without even knowing each other: This is the human animal in action!'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: building	build V;PRS;V.PTCP	build V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Very often my patients with phobias start with: “I know it is stupid, but I am afraid of spiders.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: start	start V;PRS;PL;3	start V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'And I always reply: “It is not stupid, it is illogical.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reply	reply V;PRS;SG;1	reply V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'We humans have different functions in the brain, and fear oftentimes bypasses logic.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'There are several reasons.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'In situations of danger, we ought to be fast: First run or kill, then think.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: run	run V;PRS;1;PL	run V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Politicians and the media very often use fear to circumvent our logic.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;PRS;PL;3	use V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'I always say the U.S. media are disaster pornographers – they work too much on triggering their audiences’ emotions.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: say	say V;PRS;SG;1	say V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'They are kind of political reality shows, surprising to many from outside the U.S.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: surprising	surprise V;PRS;V.PTCP	surprise V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'When one person kills a few others in a city of millions, which is of course a tragedy, major networks’ coverage could lead one to perceive the whole city is under siege and unsafe.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: kills	kill V;PRS;SG;3	kill V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'If one undocumented illegal immigrant murders a U.S. citizen, some politicians use fear with the hope that few will ask: “This is terrible, but how many people were murdered in this country by U.S. citizens just today?”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: murders	murder V;PRS;SG;3	murder V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Or: “I know several murders happen every week in this town, but why am I so scared now that this one is being showcased by the media?”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;1	know V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'We do not ask these questions, because fear bypasses logic.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ask	ask V;NFIN	ask V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Fear can turn violent'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: turn	turn V;NFIN	turn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'There is a reason that the response to fear is called the “fight or flight” response.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: is	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'That response has helped us survive the predators and other tribes that have wanted to kill us.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: helped	help V;PST;V.PTCP	help V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But again, it is another loophole in our biology to be abused to turn on our aggression toward “the others,” whether in the form of vandalizing their temples or harassing them on the social media.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: abused	abuse V;PST;V.PTCP	abuse V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '“Desecrated Graves in the Old Jewish Section of the Cemetery, Vienna” by Scott Rettberg is licensed under CC BY 2.0'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Desecrated	desecrate V;PST;V.PTCP	desecrate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'When ideologies manage to get hold of our fear circuitry, we often regress to illogical, tribal and aggressive human animals, becoming weapons ourselves – weapons that politicians use for their own agenda.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: manage	manage V;PRS;PL;3	manage V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'This essay originally appeared in The Conversation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appeared	appear V;PST;SG;3	appear V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The Politics of Fear: How It Manipulates Us to Tribalism by Arash Javanbakht is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 International License.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Manipulates	manipulate V;PRS;SG;3	manipulate V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Fix the Machine, Not the Person (Swartz)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Fix	fix V;IMP;2	fix V;IMP;2
Given the context: '“Everything was a fight,” the head of the union admits.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: admits	admit V;PRS;SG;3	admit V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“They spent more time on grievances and on things like that than they did on producing cars.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: spent	spend V;PST;PL;3	spend V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'They had strikes all the time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;PL;3	have V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'It was considered the worst workforce in the automobile industry in the United States.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: considered	consider V;PST;V.PTCP	consider V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '“One of the expressions was, you can buy anything you want in the GM plant in Fremont,” adds Jeffrey Liker, a professor who studied the plant.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: buy	buy V;NFIN	buy V;NFIN
Given the context: '“If you want sex, if you want drugs, if you want alcohol, it's there.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'During breaks, during lunch time, if you want to gamble illegally—any illegal activity was available for the asking within that plant.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Absenteeism was so bad that some mornings they didn’t have enough employees to start the assembly line; they had to go across the street and drag people out of the bar.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'When management tried to punish workers, workers tried to punish them right back: scratching cars, loosening parts in hard-to-reach places, filing union grievances, sometimes even building cars unsafely.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: tried	try V;PST;SG;3	try V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In 1982, GM finally closed the plant.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: closed	close V;PST;SG;3	close V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'But the very next year, when Toyota was planning to start its first plant in the US, it decided to partner with GM to reopen it, hiring back the same old disastrous workers into the very same jobs.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: planning	plan V;PRS;V.PTCP	plan V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And so began the most fascinating experiment in management history.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: began	begin V;PST;SG;3	begin V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Toyota flew this rowdy crew to Japan, to see an entirely different way of working: The Toyota Way.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: flew	fly V;PST;SG;3	flead V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'At Toyota, labor and management considered themselves on the same team; when workers got stuck, managers didn’t yell at them, but asked how they could help and solicited suggestions.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: considered	consider V;PST;PL;3	consider V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: '“You had union workers—grizzled old folks that had worked on the plant floor for 30 years, and they were hugging their Japanese counterparts, just absolutely in tears,” recalls their Toyota trainer.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;2	have V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: '“And it might sound flowery to say 25 years later, but they had had such a powerful emotional experience of learning a new way of working, a way that people could actually work together collaboratively — as a team.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sound	sound V;NFIN	sound V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Three months after they got back to the US and reopened the plant, everything had changed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;PL;3	get V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Grievances and absenteeism fell away and workers started saying they actually enjoyed coming to work.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: fell	feel V;PST;PL;3	fall V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The Fremont factory, once one of the worst in the US, had skyrocketed to become the best.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: skyrocketed	skyrocket V;PST;V.PTCP	skyrocket V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The cars they made got near-perfect quality ratings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;PL;3	make V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'And the cost to make them had plummeted.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: make	make V;NFIN	make V;NFIN
Given the context: 'It's almost like a machine made of men and women.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;V.PTCP	make V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Think of an assembly line.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Think	think V;IMP;2	think V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'If you just took a bunch of people and threw them in a warehouse with a bunch of car parts and a manual, it’d probably be a disaster.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;2	take V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Instead, a careful structure has been built: car parts roll down on a conveyor belt, each worker does one step of the process, everything is carefully designed and routinized.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: built	build V;PST;V.PTCP	build V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And when the system isn’t working, it doesn’t make sense to just yell at the people in it—any more than you’d try to fix a machine by yelling at the gears.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: working	work V;PRS;V.PTCP	work V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'True, sometimes you have the wrong gears and need to replace them, but more often you’re just using them in the wrong way.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'When there’s a problem, you shouldn’t get angry with the gears—you should fix the machine.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ’s	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'If you have goals in life, you’re probably going to need some sort of organization.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Even if it’s an organization of just you, it’s still helpful to think of it as a kind of machine.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'You don’t need to do every part of the process yourself—you just need to set up the machine so that the right outcomes happen.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: need	need V;NFIN	need V;NFIN
Given the context: 'For example, let’s say you want to build a treehouse in the backyard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You’re great at sawing and hammering, but architecture is not your forte.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sawing	saw V;PRS;V.PTCP	saw V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You build and build, but the treehouses keep falling down.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: build	build V;PRS;SG;2	build V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Sure, you can try to get better at architecture, develop a better design, but you can also step back, look at the machine as a whole, and decide to fire yourself as the architect.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: try	try V;NFIN	try V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Instead, you find a friend who loves that sort of thing to design the treehouse for you and you stick to actually building it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;PRS;SG;2	find V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'After all, your goal was to build a treehouse whose design you like—does it really matter whether you’re the one who actually designed it?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: build	build V;NFIN	build V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Or let’s say you really want to get in shape, but never remember to exercise.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You can keep beating yourself up for your forgetfulness, or you can put a system in place.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: keep	keep V;NFIN	keep V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Maybe you have your roommate check to see that you exercise before you leave your house in the morning or you set a regular time to consistently go to the gym together.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Life isn’t a high school exam; you don’t have to solve your problems on your own.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In 1967, Edward Jones and Victor Harris gathered a group of college students and asked them to judge another student’s exam (the student was a fictional character, but let’s call him Jim).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gathered	gather V;PST;SG;3	gather V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The exam always had one question, asking Jim to write an essay on Fidel Castro “as if [he] were giving the opening statement in a debate.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'You’re on the 236th-level Kaiserstrasse moving sidewalk when you see her.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: moving	move V;PRS;V.PTCP	move V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You’re leaning on the railing, waiting to ask Derya about a job, watching the glittering stream of mites that arc over half the sky — flying up to rewind their nanosprings in the stratospheric sunlight, flying down to make Frankfurt run.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: leaning	lean V;PRS;V.PTCP	lean V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You never get tired of watching them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: get	get V;PRS;SG;2	get V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Someone’s hung it up here — a hundred meters of clean gray and green twentieth-century modernism, plucked up from the river Main and suspended in the chilly air 2,360 meters up, between a lump of wooded parkland and a cluster of antique subway cars.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hung	hine V;PST;V.PTCP	hang V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'She’s wearing a 1950s sundress and a broad-brimmed hat, and it’s like an essay on the last century — the austere steel bridge, the bright blobs of subway graffiti, and her yellow dress, flapping against her legs as she climbs over the bridge’s rail.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wearing	wear V;PRS;V.PTCP	wear V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'She’s beyond the rail now, hanging out over the mountain - high drop.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hanging	hang V;PRS;V.PTCP	hang V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Thin translucent shadows move across her — the shadows of the neosilk-and-nanotube filaments that hang the city from the hundreds of five-kilometer-high towers that encircle it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: move	move V;PRS;PL;3	move V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: '(A civic agent notices you noticing, and attaches itself to your infospace, whispering statistics —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: notices	notice V;PRS;SG;3	notice V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“Each object’s suspension must weather a class 5 hurricane and the destruction of 80% of the towers” —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: weather	weather V;NFIN	weather V;NFIN
Given the context: 'until you brush it away.)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: brush	brush V;PRS;SG;2	brush V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'You’re watching her lean out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: watching	watch V;PRS;V.PTCP	watch V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The wind whips her hair, ruffles the skirt around her knees.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: whips	whip V;PRS;SG;3	whip V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You remember your first trip to the upper levels: leaning over the edge into the angry swarm of mites, whirring and buzzing warnings and shoving you back like a million mosquito chaperones.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remember	remember V;PRS;SG;2	remember V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Everyone tries it once — Except that there aren’t any mites around her.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: tries	try V;PRS;SG;3	try V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You clutch the railing.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: clutch	clutch V;PRS;SG;2	clutch V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Hot, animal fear surges in your chest.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: surges	surge V;PRS;SG;3	surge V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'She looks up at you and, across the gap of forty meters, smiles a brilliant, heartbreaking smile.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looks	look V;PRS;SG;3	look V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Then she lets go and falls.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lets	let V;PRS;SG;3	let V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You scream.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: scream	scream V;PRS;SG;2	scream V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: '“Fucking airsurfers,” says Derya.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: says	say V;PRS;V.PTCP	say V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'He steps off the moving sidewalk near you: tall, hook-nosed, the fashionable whorls of pox and acne making constellations of his cheeks and chest; the glowing, formal tattoos of his committees and lifebrands adorning his massive triceps.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: steps	step V;PRS;SG;3	step V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You swallow on a dry throat.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: swallow	swallow V;PRS;SG;2	swallow V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Derya, of all people, hearing you scream!'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hearing	hear V;PRS;V.PTCP	hear V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He gives you a hooded look.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gives	give V;PRS;SG;3	give V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“They infect themselves with some designer virus -'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: infect	infect V;PRS;PL;3	infect V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'it lets them hack the city’s person-recognition systems.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lets	let V;PRS;SG;3	let V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'So the mites don’t see them when they jump.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;NFIN	see V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Watch —”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Watch	watch V;IMP;2	watch V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'She’s swept past the whalelike oval of the public pool on the 202nd, past the sloping mandala of the Google of offices on the 164th.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: swept	sweep V;PST;V.PTCP	sweep V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'At the 131st, below her, is the old Stock Exchange, hung upside-down now as a hipster den.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hung	hine V;PST;SG;3	hang V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Now the mites are finally closing in.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: closing	close V;PRS;V.PTCP	close V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A silver swarm coalesces around the 164th, and she vanishes into it, like a snip of scallion into cloudy miso soup.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coalesces	coalesce V;PRS;SG;3	coalesce V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'When the cloud disperses, she’s standing on one of the Stock Exchange’s upside-down overhangs.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disperses	disperse V;PRS;SG;3	disperse V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'She waves, antlike, then crawls through a dormer window.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: waves	wave V;PRS;SG;3	wave V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“It’s not funny,” Derya says.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: says	say V;PRS;SG;3	say V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Ripple effects are causing project slowdowns ...”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: causing	cause V;PRS;V.PTCP	cause V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: '“Freeloaders drive systemic evolution,” you find yourself saying.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: drive	drive V;PRS;PL;3	drive V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: '“Don’t you quote the founders at me,” Derya snaps.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: quote	quote V;NFIN	quote V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The minute enough people find anticontributive behavior cool, the party’s over —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;PRS;PL;3	find V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'He stares until you meet his eye.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stares	stare V;PRS;SG;3	stare V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“You even talk to those people -'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: talk	talk V;PRS;SG;2	talk V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'are you paying attention? —'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: paying	pay V;PRS;V.PTCP	pay V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'you even talk to them, your rep will be trashed on all the major servers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: talk	talk V;PRS;SG;2	talk V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'You won’t work, you won’t party, you’ll be defriended by every one of your tribes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: work	work V;NFIN	work V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Got it?”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Got	get V;PST;SG;3	get V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Her broad-brimmed hat is still sailing on the wind.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sailing	sail V;PRS;V.PTCP	sail V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The mites missed it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: missed	miss V;PST;PL;3	miss V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'It cuts between the towers of the 50th.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: cuts	cut V;PRS;SG;3	cut V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'The upside-down trading floor is deserted.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: deserted	desert V;PST;V.PTCP	desert V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There are heaps of yellowed euros and deutschmarks dumped here, like snowdrifts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'You realize: no mites.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: realize	realize V;PRS;SG;2	realize V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'The city has no eyes or ears here.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You walk through empty, miteless rooms, stepping around light fixtures.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: walk	walk V;PRS;SG;2	walk V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'She comes to you.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: comes	come V;PRS;SG;3	come V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '“You want it?” she says.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: '“You want to be infected?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'You want to fly?”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'You nod.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: nod	nod V;PRS;SG;2	nod V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Eyes closing, she leans in for the kiss.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: closing	close V;PRS;V.PTCP	close V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Steven wanted to be a dentist.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wanted	want V;PST;SG;3	want V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It was pretty much the first thing he told us when, as first years, we were all bunched together in the unfamiliar dusty classroom.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;SG;3	tell V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'When, a couple of weeks later we were invited over to his house we saw that this was not an idle remark.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: invited	invite V;PST;V.PTCP	invite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Where our bedroom walls were decorated with posters of pop stars and footballers, Steven had diagrams setting out tooth implementations, anatomical drawings of the jaw with brightly coloured nerves, muscle, blood vessels, bones, and, of course, teeth.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: decorated	decorate V;PST;V.PTCP	decorate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Where we had shelves of plastic dinosaurs and superhero figurines from cornflake boxes, Steven had plaster casts of jawbones, gums and teeth grinning down at us.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;1;PL	have V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'The instruments were locked away in glass cabinets and only his parents had the key.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: locked	lock V;PST;V.PTCP	lock V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '“They don’t exactly encourage my interest,” he shrugged.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: encourage	encourage V;NFIN	encourage V;NFIN
Given the context: '“They sort of tolerate it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: tolerate	tolerate V;PRS;PL;3	tolerate V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'But Dad says they’re a sort of collection, and too expensive for me to play with.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: says	say V;PRS;SG;3	say V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Of course, we tried to pick the locks, but the spikes and saws and drillheads remained — tantalisingly — out of reach.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: tried	try V;PST;1;PL	try V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'We didn’t see Steven’s interest as strange, well, not that much.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;NFIN	see V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We all had our own interests — drawing, electronics, collecting beer caps — that each appeared obscure to anyone else.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;1;PL	have V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'DIY Dentistry was just something that had never crossed our horizon before.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: crossed	cross V;PST;V.PTCP	cross V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And if Steven didn’t see it as weird, or no weirder than Andy showing us his Eastern-Block beer caps all laid out neatly on cork boards with little hand-written labels, why should it bother us?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;NFIN	see V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I suppose that, in our own way, we were all collectively strange.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: suppose	suppose V;PRS;SG;1	suppose V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'The bunch that no one picked for their side at football or hockey, and that was the glue that held us together.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: picked	pick V;PST;SG;3	pick V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Besides, Steven had some really good stuff: sweets that stained your teeth bright red — well, technically, not your teeth, just the plaque, but the result was often the same.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It took a few days good brushing to get it off.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;3	take V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He had effervescent tablets that turned the canteen drinking water into that exact same pink mixture that the dentist gave you to rinse your mouth out after scraping around inside, and guaranteed to make the other kids splutter and spit it out when the taste slowly percolated through and met the memory of their last checkup.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Then there was the event that became the rite of passage into our group of misfits and outcasts: making a mould of your teeth.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: was	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It was inevitable that one of us, seeing the plaster casts on the shelf by Steven’s bed would ask how they were done.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seeing	see V;PRS;V.PTCP	see V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It was just as inevitable that a few minutes later, Steven would be mixing up various powders and liquids, and pouring them into a horse-shoe shaped contraption.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mixing	mix V;PRS;V.PTCP	mix V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'At least, I suppose so.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: suppose	suppose V;PRS;SG;1	suppose V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'It was vaguely uncomfortable, and appeared sufficiently disturbing that we all volunteered each other in turn until, at last, Andy said he was game.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appeared	appear V;PST;SG;3	appear V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The hardest part was probably to overcome the gagging reflex that set in when you bit down into the acrid resin jelly and it flowed out and up and around, over teeth, gums and tongue.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: overcome	overcome V;NFIN	overcome V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Your nose filled with what you imagined were fumes from the warm paste.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: filled	fill V;PST;SG;3	fill V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And you seemed to be suddenly drowning in your own saliva.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seemed	seem V;PST;SG;2	seem V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Things generally got better when Steven reminded you that you could actually breathe, and swallow, normally.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;PL;3	get V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'He watched the second hand trotting round the dial of his watch mouthing the quarters, before poking the setting goo to check its consistency.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: watched	watch V;PST;SG;3	watch V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Then, when he gave you the nod, you tried to prise your jaws apart.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gave	give V;PST;SG;3	give V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'As the seal around your gums and teeth was pretty solid, you thought it would never come off, as the others giggled at your expressions and grimaces.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thought	think V;PST;SG;2	think V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Steven jiggled the handle that stuck out beyond your front teeth like some metallic duck’s bill, turning and twisting it most professionally and murmuring encouragements.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: jiggled	jiggle V;PST;SG;3	jiggle V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And, then, with an awful sucking slurp, it came free.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sucking	suck V;PRS;V.PTCP	suck V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The initiated then revelled in retelling the gross sensation of having this evil-smelling plastic slug invade your mouth, while the others waited their turn with mixed trepidation and excitement.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: initiated	initiate V;PST;SG;3	initiate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Raucous laughter greeted the suggestions of the other body parts that could receive the same treatment.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: greeted	greet V;PST;SG;3	greet V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Steven measured and mixed the plaster of Paris and prepared for the cast by using a bright blue putty to build up the form of the jaw, and shoring up gaps and holes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: measured	measure V;PST;SG;3	measure V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It get even less exciting when he said we’d have to wait an hour while the plaster set real solid.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: get	get V;PST;SG;3	get V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'But the next time we visited his room we got to marvel at our toothy grins labelled and lined up on the shelf.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: visited	visit V;PST;1;PL	visit V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'We were all perfectly happy with the result, even wanting one as a trophy until Steven passed an expert eye over them, pointing out here a gap, here a filling, and there a completely misaligned incisor.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wanting	want V;PRS;V.PTCP	want V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We were, he told us, mediocre specimens for his collection.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;1;PL	tell V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It didn’t matter.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: matter	matter V;NFIN	matter V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We were all friends, a group bonded by the common experience of being able to see our teeth on Steven’s shelf.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bonded	bond V;PST;V.PTCP	bond V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Wikinews interviews Christopher Hill, U.S. Republican Party presidential candidate'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: interviews	interview V;PRS;SG;3	interview V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'What qualifications do you have that will assist you in executing the duties of president?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'My Presidential qualifications are rooted in my service as an Officer in the United States Air Force.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: rooted	root V;PST;V.PTCP	root V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I took the Oath to our Constitution at 22 years old.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;1	take V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I understood it was an Oath to ALL of our people.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understood	understand V;PST;SG;1	understand V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Politicians profess an Oath to this nation but once in office pursue their party agenda and reward their voters.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: profess	profess V;PRS;PL;3	profess V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'As President, I will serve ALL of the people in America, guided by the Constitution.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: serve	serve V;NFIN	serve V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Why run for president?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: run	run V;IMP;2	run V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'Why not run for a lower office that you would be more likely to win and effect change?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: run	run V;NFIN	run V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'When I was a young man in Air Force ROTC I was chosen to attend a unique Pilot Training Program called Euro- NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: chosen	choose V;PST;V.PTCP	choose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Air Force only selected 180 Officers a year from the Academy, Squadron Officer School and ROTC to attend.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: selected	select V;PST;SG;3	select V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'I volunteered for that program because I knew I wanted to be a Fighter Pilot and at the "Top of the Spear."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: volunteered	volunteer V;PST;SG;1	volunteer V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'If you graduated you were assigned a fighter, if you were not quite fighter pilot material you had no response to fly another aircraft, you were washed out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: graduated	graduate V;PST;SG;2	graduate V;PST;2;SG
Given the context: 'Congress has proven itself ineffective as a body.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: proven	prove V;PST;V.PTCP	prove V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'To make a difference in America you must have the "Bully Pulpit" and speak to the People.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: make	make V;NFIN	make V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The President has that pulpit.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'I never wanted to make politics a career.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wanted	want V;PST;SG;1	want V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Why did you choose to run in the Republican Party?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: choose	choose V;NFIN	choose V;NFIN
Given the context: 'My ties to the Republican party date back to 1979, when I volunteered for Ronald Reagan and his campaign in New Hampshire.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: date	date V;PRS;PL;3	date V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'In those days I believed there was a difference in the parties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believed	believe V;PST;SG;1	believe V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I understand third party candidates have no success.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understand	understand V;PRS;SG;1	understand V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I hope to lead the Republican party in a new direction for working class Americans.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hope	hope V;PRS;SG;1	hope V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'How do you plan to get into the Republican debates and make an impact on polls?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: plan	plan V;NFIN	plan V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In order to be invited to the debates, we must raise money and poll nationally.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: invited	invite V;PST;V.PTCP	invite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Recently we were listed in New Hampshire and nationally with Politics1.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: listed	list V;PST;V.PTCP	list V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If you do not receive the Republican nomination, would you consider running as a third party candidate?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: receive	receive V;NFIN	receive V;NFIN
Given the context: 'No, I will back the nominee of the Republican party in 2016.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: back	back V;NFIN	back V;NFIN
Given the context: 'After that, I may reconsider.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reconsider	reconsider V;NFIN	reconsider V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Other than yourself, which candidates have you supported for president in previous campaigns?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: supported	support V;PST;V.PTCP	support V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'What are your thoughts on the job Barack Obama has done as president?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: done	do V;PST;V.PTCP	do V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Specifically, what would you have done differently?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: done	do V;PST;V.PTCP	do V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'President Obama has an agenda that represents the far left wing of his party.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'His use of the Presidency to further this agenda has in many ways been unconstitutional.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: further	further V;NFIN	further V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Specifically, altering law once it is passed to accommodate his voting blocs.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: altering	alter V;PRS;V.PTCP	alter V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'His direction to Eric Holder to enforce some laws and not others is another example.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: enforce	enforce V;NFIN	enforce V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Hill at the Lesser-known candidates forum in 2011'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: known	know V;PST;V.PTCP	know V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If elected, what would constitute a successful presidency for you?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: elected	elect V;PST;V.PTCP	elect V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Achieving four goals:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Achieving	achieve V;PRS;V.PTCP	achieve V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Term Limits for Congress and the Courts returning government to the People.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: returning	return V;PRS;V.PTCP	return V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Implementing a Tax System that allows working Americans making under $ 250,000 to keep all of their money.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Implementing	implement V;PRS;V.PTCP	implement V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Closing Loopholes and putting in place a system that is transparent and works.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Closing	close V;PRS;V.PTCP	close V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Passing a Living Wage program lifting people out of poverty.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Passing	pass V;PRS;V.PTCP	pass V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Returning America to a state of Peace and Security.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Returning	return V;PRS;V.PTCP	return V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'What individuals would you like to see in a Hill administration?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;NFIN	like V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I would like to bring People from the heartland of America that make this nation work.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;NFIN	like V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We have had too many decades of Ivy League elites and Professors immersed in theory.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;V.PTCP	have V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Anything else you would like to add?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;NFIN	like V;NFIN
Given the context: 'America is a nation that will endure.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: endure	endure V;NFIN	endure V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I believe it is our responsibility to pass on the same opportunities to future generations that were promised to us.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believe	believe V;PRS;SG;1	believe V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'As President, I intend to keep that promise!'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: intend	intend V;PRS;SG;1	intend V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Wikinews interviews Robert Sarvis, Libertarian Party nominee for Governor of Virginia'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: interviews	interview V;PRS;SG;3	interview V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Attorney Robert Sarvis, the Libertarian Party's nominee for Governor of Virginia, answered five questions submitted via e-mail by accredited Wikinews reporter William Saturn.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: answered	answer V;PST;SG;3	answer V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Sarvis has garnered double digits in opinion polls for the 2013 Virginia gubernatorial election, an unusual feat for a third party candidate.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: garnered	garner V;PST;V.PTCP	garner V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The latest Newsmax / Zogby poll from late September placed him at 13 percent, 14 points behind Republican Party nominee Ken Cuccinelli, Virginia's Attorney General, and 19 points behind Democratic Party nominee Terry McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee chairman, with 24 percent undecided.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: placed	place V;PST;SG;3	place V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Whoever wins election on November 5, 2013, would replace outgoing governor Bob McDonnell.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wins	win V;PRS;SG;3	win V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'On his campaign website, Sarvis notes he favors parental school choice through student vouchers, simplification of Virginia's Tax Code, US Second Amendment - gun - rights, same-sex marriage, and reform of the state's drug laws.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: notes	note V;PRS;SG;3	note V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'With Wikinews, Sarvis discusses his background, views on McDonnell's tenure, keys to campaign success, plan to implement his agenda, and the former Virginia governor he most admires.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: discusses	discuss V;PRS;SG;3	discuss V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'What is the most important aspect of your background that voters should know about?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;NFIN	know V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I am the only candidate born and raised in Virginia, but also the only candidate who embodies both physically and philosophically the growing diversity of the commonwealth.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: born	bear V;PST;V.PTCP	bear V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '(I am mixed-race (half-Chinese) and in an interracial marriage.)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mixed	mix V;PST;V.PTCP	mix V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I am the only candidate who has studied both economics and law, and the only candidate with a background in technology entrepreneurship.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: studied	study V;PST;V.PTCP	study V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Because of my academic and professional background, I understand the issues and challenges facing Virginia much better than the other candidates, and I am offering real solutions that can be appreciated across the political spectrum.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: understand	understand V;PRS;SG;1	understand V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I am the only candidate who believes in both economic freedom and personal liberty and the only candidate who stands on principle against cronyism and corporatism and in favor of the rule of law.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believes	believe V;PRS;SG;3	believe V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'What are your thoughts on the job Bob McDonnell has done as Governor of Virginia?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: done	do V;PST;V.PTCP	do V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'What would you have done differently than him?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: done	do V;PST;V.PTCP	do V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'McDonnell did well early in his term pushing back against Senate Democrats who wanted huge tax increases in response to major revenue shortfalls during the recession.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: did	do V;PST;SG;3	do V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'More recently, he erred in accepting a transportation bill that had huge flaws and huge tax increases, rather than prioritizing spending and seeking more rational, efficient, decentralized transportation decision-making.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: erred	er V;PST;SG;3	err V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He could have shown much greater leadership in pushing for tax reform, regulatory reform, and school choice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shown	show V;PST;V.PTCP	show V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Of course, he showed ethical lapses in judgment.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: showed	show V;PST;SG;3	show V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Compared to previous third party candidates at the gubernatorial level, you have done exceptionally well in opinion polling.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Compared	compare V;PST;V.PTCP	compare V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'What do you attribute that success to?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attribute	attribute V;NFIN	attribute V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Voters see the two-party system for the sham it has become.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;PRS;PL;3	see V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Voters see the two major party nominees as exemplifying what is worst about their respective parties, and they want something better.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;PRS;PL;3	see V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Voters who meet me and hear me speak know that I am sincere, know that I understand the issues deeply and have workable solutions, and know that I stand on principle against cronyism and corporatism and in favor of the rule of law and the public interest.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: meet	meet V;PRS;PL;3	meet V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'People like the fact that I stand for a Virginia that is both Open-minded and Open for Business.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: like	like V;PRS;PL;3	like V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'If elected governor, how will you be able to implement your agenda while dealing with a hostile legislature?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: elected	elect V;PST;V.PTCP	elect V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There are precedents of independent governors dealing effectively with the legislature, and indeed a wise third-party governor can have greater effectiveness than a major party governor.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Libertarians share many policy positions with each of the major parties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: share	share V;PRS;PL;3	share V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Working together with both Republicans and Democrats, we can get the good aspects of each party while rejecting the bad parts of both.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Working	work V;PRS;V.PTCP	work V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Moreover, electing a third-party governor represents a repudiation of politics as usual, and the major party legislators will face changed constraints and incentives, meaning that much more is possible than many people assume, especially with strong leadership.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: electing	elect V;PRS;V.PTCP	elect V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Which previous Virginia Governor(s) do you most admire and why?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: admire	admire V;NFIN	admire V;NFIN
Given the context: 'He was incredibly learned and was a strong advocate for freedom and the rule of law.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learned	learn V;PST;V.PTCP	learn V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Virginia, highlighted in red.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: highlighted	highlight V;PST;V.PTCP	highlight V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Thank you for your call of this afternoon.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Thank	thank V;PRS;SG;1	thank V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'It was a surprise for us to learn that apparently a decision was reached, perhaps by the judge that the letters are the property of Isabelle.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learn	learn V;NFIN	learn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Michel advised her on May 25th as follows: "There is a grave legal question involved as to whether or not these letters are the property of your mother's estate and an appropriate legal action is contemplated to determine such question."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: advised	advise V;PST;SG;3	advise V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'It is our considered opinion: Williamson should have sent them to the owner's daughter as a very personal matter or auctioned them off when he sold Mrs. Phillips's things on the auction block.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: considered	consider V;PST;V.PTCP	consider V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'He did neither.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: did	do V;PST;SG;3	do V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He sat on them 'til some reporter's warned him that they were hot merchandise.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sat	sit V;PST;SG;3	sit V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Then with the idea of seeking cover made a judge (apparently ignorant of the law) appoint an administrator for Mrs. Phillips's estate for stolen merchandise held in posession of acourt appointed guardian of Mrs. Phillips.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seeking	seek V;PRS;V.PTCP	seek V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'To cap it all he permitted publication of these stolen letters by the press, although they were ordered by him to be under lock and key.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: cap	cap V;NFIN	cap V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Now it appears that Williamson is trying to defend himself to the public.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appears	appear V;PRS;SG;3	appear V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'A reporter from the Cleveland Press phoned on Monday last.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: phoned	phone V;PST;SG;3	phone V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'He said that he wanted to check on a statement made by Williamson, since he claimed that while he was Mrs. P's guardian he had never heard from Isabelle.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'We said; "No comment".'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;1;PL	say V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'Isabelle was not advised that her mother had a guardian.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: advised	advise V;PST;V.PTCP	advise V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'On Dec. 6th 1954 she had a power of attorney duly executed and witnessed by our attorney in Recine, Wis. in favor of Maud Gorham of Marion, Ohio especially to deal in all matters pertaining to Carrie Fulton Phillips.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'We have not seen the Press article of this week, nor one the Marion Star or any Columbus paper might have had, covering an interview with Williamson.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seen	see V;PST;V.PTCP	see V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If he does not leave Isabelle out of all of this he will have to suffer the consequences.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: leave	leave V;NFIN	leave V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Perhaps you can warn him for me.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: warn	warn V;NFIN	warn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We will brand him with a libel iron, he won't forget.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: brand	brand V;NFIN	brand V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The mental and heart suffering caused by this S.O.B to Isabelle is very deep, I can assure you, John.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: caused	cause V;PST;V.PTCP	cause V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If there are no live debts to be satisfied and if the only assets in the reopened estate administrated by Michel are these stolen letters, now apparently determined to be the property of Isabelle, why on that decision alone, cannot these letters be surrendered and the estate be closed because of lack of assets.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'In that event, if you can succeed in getting that done, we would like to have the letters surrendered to you for destruction or surrender to the Harding family, as a possible value in checking the accuracy of any published stuff in the future.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: succeed	succeed V;NFIN	succeed V;NFIN
Given the context: 'If the Court insists on these letters being an asset and refuses to close the estate and insists that they be appraised and sold by the administrator at highest value offered, we would want to be sure that the sales price received covers the expenditures and that any trans-action in connection with such a sale remain entirely free from press and publication abuse.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: insists	insist V;PRS;SG;3	insist V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'In our business of antiques, that of antiquarians, we have and must have in certain states, licensed appraisers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'All of them own their own respective businesses and sell.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: own	own V;PRS;PL;3	own V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Then of course there seem to be in this picture, so called historians, like the man you mentioned over the phone, Ed. K. Gross etc.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seem	seem V;PRS;PL;3	seem V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'We even had inquiries from the Wisconsin State College, D. F. Costello, Prof.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;1;PL	have V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'A historian from Minneapolis wrote: would we sell the letters?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wrote	write V;PST;SG;3	write V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'These kind of historians want something for nothing and could not appraise anything of this kind, since they do not know corresponding values.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;PL;3	want V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'But all would want to take a look and see.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;NFIN	want V;NFIN
Given the context: 'John, Isabelle does not want to sell the letters unless we are forced to do so by the judge and his court under the auspices of estate jurisdiction.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;NFIN	want V;NFIN
Given the context: 'She has never seen them, knew nothing of their existence and does not care to see them now or ever.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seen	see V;PST;V.PTCP	see V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There are to ways out: 1) according to Paragraph 1 & 2 of this page and the preceeding paragraph, as we see it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'In the first instance we would want to pay you your bill on conclusion or before as you like.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;NFIN	want V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In the second instance we wonder if you might take for a third of the net or how you would like to be compensated.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wonder	wonder V;PRS;1;PL	wonder V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'In one week's time, the Verwoerd Government intends to inaugurate its Republic.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: intends	intend V;PRS;SG;3	intend V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It is unnecessary to state that this intention has never been endorsed by the non-white majority of this country.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: state	state V;NFIN	state V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The decision has been taken by little over half of the White community; it is opposed by every articulate group amongst the African, Coloured and Indian communities, who constitute the majority of this country.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Government's intentions to proceed, under these circumstances, has created conditions bordering on crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: proceed	proceed V;NFIN	proceed V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We have been excluded from the Commonwealth, and condemned 95 to 1 at the United Nations.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: excluded	exclude V;PST;V.PTCP	exclude V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Our trade is being boycotted, and foreign capital is being withdrawn.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: boycotted	boycot V;PST;V.PTCP	boycott V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The country is becoming an armed camp, the Government preparing for civil war with increasingly heavy police and military apparatus, the non-white population for a general strike and long-term non-cooperation with the Government.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: becoming	become V;PRS;V.PTCP	become V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'None of us can draw any satisfaction from this developing crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: draw	draw V;NFIN	draw V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We, on our part, in the name of the African people - a majority of South Africans - and on the authority given us by 1 400 elected African representatives at the Pietermaritzburg Conference of 25 and 26 March, have put forward serious proposals for a way out of the crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We have called on the Government to convene an elected National Convention of representatives of all races without delay, and to charge that Convention with the task of drawing up a new Constitution for this country which would be acceptable to all racial groups.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: called	call V;PST;V.PTCP	call V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We can see no workable alternative to this proposal, except that the Nationalist Government proceeds to enforce a minority decision on all of us, with the certain consequence of still deeper crisis, and a continuing period of strife and disaster ahead.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;NFIN	see V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Stated bluntly, the alternatives appear to be these: talk it out, or shoot it out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Stated	state V;PST;V.PTCP	state V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Outside of the Nationalist Party, most of the important and influential bodies of public opinion have clearly decided to talk it out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: decided	decide V;PST;V.PTCP	decide V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The South African Indian Congress, the only substantial Indian community organisation, has welcomed and endorsed the call for a National Convention.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: welcomed	welcome V;PST;V.PTCP	welcome V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So, too have the Coloured people, through the Coloured Convention movement which has the backing of the main bodies of Coloured opinion.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;IMP;2	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'A substantial European body of opinion, represented by both the Progressive and the Liberal Parties, has endorsed our call.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: represented	represent V;PST;V.PTCP	represent V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Support for a National Convention has come also from the bulk of the English language press, from several national church organisations, and from many others.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: come	come V;PST;V.PTCP	come V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But where, Sir, does the United Party stand?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We have yet to hear from this most important organisation - the main organisation in fact of anti-Nationalist opinion amongst the European community.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'If the country's leading statesmen fail to lead at this moment, then the worst is inevitable.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: fail	fail V;PRS;PL;3	fail V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'It is time for you, Sir, and your Party, to speak out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: speak	speak V;NFIN	speak V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We in South Africa, and the world outside expect an answer.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: expect	expect V;PRS;1;PL	expect V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Silence at this time enables, Dr. Verwoerd to lead us onwards towards the brink of disaster.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: enables	enable V;PRS;SG;3	enable V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We realise that aspects of our proposal raise complicated problems.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: realise	realise V;PRS;1;PL	realise V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'How shall the representatives be elected?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: elected	elect V;PST;V.PTCP	elect V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Are all groups to be consulted before a constitutional change is made?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consulted	consult V;PST;V.PTCP	consult V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A decision on this matter cannot be delayed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: delayed	delay V;PST;V.PTCP	delay V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Once that decision is taken, then all other matters, of how, when and where, can be discussed, and agreement on them can be reached.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We have approached you and your Party before, and suggested that matters of difference be discussed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: approached	approach V;PST;V.PTCP	approach V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'To date we have had no reply: Nevertheless we still hold the door open.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;V.PTCP	have V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It is still not too late to turn the tide against the Nationalist-created crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: turn	turn V;NFIN	turn V;NFIN
Given the context: 'It would unite the overwhelming majority of our people, White, Coloured, Indian and African, for a single purpose-round-table talks for a new constitution.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: unite	unite V;NFIN	unite V;NFIN
Given the context: 'It would isolate the Nationalist Government, and reveal for all time that it is a minority Government, clinging tenaciously to power against the popular will, driving recklessly onward to a disaster for itself and us.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: isolate	isolate V;NFIN	isolate V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Your call for a National Convention now would add such strength to the already powerful call for it that the Government would be chary of ignoring it further.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: add	add V;NFIN	add V;NFIN
Given the context: 'And if they nevertheless ignore the call for a Convention, the inter-racial unity thus cemented by your call would lay the basis for the replacement of this Government of national disaster by one more acceptable to the people, one prepared to follow the democratic path of consulting all the people in order to resolve the crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ignore	ignore V;PRS;PL;3	ignore V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'We urge you strongly to speak out now.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: urge	urge V;PRS;1;PL	urge V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: '[Signed]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Signed	sign V;PST;V.PTCP	sign V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'NASA celebrates 30th anniversary of first shuttle launch; announces new homes for retired shuttles'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: celebrates	celebrate V;PRS;SG;3	celebrate V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'NASA Administrator Charles Bolden announces where four space shuttle orbiters will be permanently displayed at the conclusion of the Space Shuttle Program during an event commemorating the 30th anniversay of the first shuttle launch on April 12, 2011.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: announces	announce V;PRS;SG;3	announce V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'NASA celebrated the launch of the first space shuttle Tuesday at an event at the Kennedy Space Center (KSC) in Cape Canaveral, Florida.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: celebrated	celebrate V;PST;SG;3	celebrate V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'On April 12, 1981, Space Shuttle Columbia lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center on STS-1, the first space shuttle mission.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lifted	lift V;PST;SG;3	lift V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'NASA held a ceremony commemorating the date outside the hangar, known as Orbiter Processing Facility-1, for Space Shuttle Atlantis, which is being prepped for its final mission which will be STS-135, which will be the last Space Shuttle mission.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: held	help V;PST;SG;3	hold V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'At the ceremony, NASA Administrator Charles Bolden announced the locations that would be given the three remaining Space Shuttle orbiters following the end of the Space Shuttle program.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: announced	announce V;PST;SG;3	announce V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The prototype orbiter, Space Shuttle Enterprise would be relocated from the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center at Washington Dulles International Airport to the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum in New York City.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: relocated	relocate V;PST;V.PTCP	relocate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Space Shuttle Discovery will take the place of Enterprise at the Udvar-Hazy Center.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;NFIN	take V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Discovery has already been retired following the completion of STS-133 last month, its 39th mission.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: retired	retire V;PST;V.PTCP	retire V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Discovery is undergoing decommissioning and currently being prepped for display by removing toxic materials from the orbiter.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: undergoing	undergo V;PRS;V.PTCP	undergo V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Looking back: Space Shuttle Columbia lifts off on STS-1 from Launch Pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center on April 12, 1981.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Looking	look V;PRS;V.PTCP	look V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Space Shuttle Endeavour, which will launch on STS-134 at the end of the month on April 29, will be sent to the California Science Center in Los Angeles, California following its retirement.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: launch	launch V;NFIN	launch V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Finally, Atlantis will go on display at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex following the orbiter's last flight which launches June 28.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Columbia was lost tragically back on February 1, 2003 when it disintegrated during re-entry killing all seven astronauts aboard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lost	lose V;PST;V.PTCP	lose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Space Shuttle Challenger was lost when it exploded 73 seconds after liftoff back on January 28, 1986 killing all six aboard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lost	lose V;PST;V.PTCP	lose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"We want to thank all of the locations that expressed an interest in one of these national treasures," said Bolden to the gathered crowd which contained many KSC employees.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;1;PL	want V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: '"This was a very difficult decision, but one that was made with the American public in mind.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;V.PTCP	make V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the end, these choices provide the greatest number of people with the best opportunity to share in the history and accomplishments of NASA's remarkable Space Shuttle Program.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provide	provide V;PRS;PL;3	provide V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'These facilities we've chosen have a noteworthy legacy of preserving space artifacts and providing outstanding access to U.S. and international visitors."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: chosen	choose V;PST;V.PTCP	choose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This was a very difficult decision, but one that was made with the American public in mind.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: made	make V;PST;V.PTCP	make V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the end, these choices provide the greatest number of people with the best opportunity to share in the history and accomplishments of NASA's remarkable Space Shuttle Program.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provide	provide V;PRS;PL;3	provide V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'File image of Space Shuttle Atlantis lifting off, which approaches its last mission before retirement.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lifting	lift V;PRS;V.PTCP	lift V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'U.S. Senator John Cornyn, Republican from Texas, issued a statement regarding the rejection of Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston, Texas as a location.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: issued	issue V;PST;SG;3	issue V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: '"Like many Texans, I am disappointed with NASA's decision to slight the Johnson Space Center as a permanent home for one of the Space Shuttle Orbiters.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disappointed	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Houston has played a critical role throughout the life of the space shuttle, but it is clear political favors trumped common sense and fairness in the selection of the final locations for the orbiter fleet."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: played	play V;PST;V.PTCP	play V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Cornyn's statement added, "There is no question Houston should have been selected as a final home for one of the orbiters — even Administrator Bolden stated as much.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: added	add V;PST;SG;3	add V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Today's announcement is an affront to the thousands of dedicated men and women at Johnson Space Center, the greater Houston community and the State of Texas, and I’m deeply disappointed with the Administration's misguided decision.“'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disappointed	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'However, the JSC will recieve pilot and commander seats from the flight deck.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recieve	recieve V;NFIN	receive V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The Museum of Flight in Seattle, Washington was also proposed as another location for a shuttle, going so far as to build a new building to house an orbiter.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: proposed	propose V;PST;V.PTCP	propose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In a statement, Governor of Washington Chris Gregoire said, "The Museum of Flight put a tremendous amount of effort into landing a retired shuttle in the Pacific Northwest.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'As the home of modern day air travel and the 747, which has gracefully transported shuttles for the last 30 years, Seattle would have been a perfect fit.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: transported	transport V;PST;V.PTCP	transport V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'While the Museum of Flight was in the top running, I’m disappointed that NASA did not choose them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disappointed	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In 2008, Endeavour and Atlantis await a journey on their respective launchpads.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: await	await V;PRS;PL;3	await V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: '"However, the full fuselage trainer, that every astronaut including [former Museum of Flight CEO] Bonnie Dunbar has been trained on, will soon call the Museum of Flight home.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: including	include V;PRS;V.PTCP	include V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The largest of the trainers, this addition will allow visitors to actually climb aboard the trainer and experience the hands-on training that astronauts get.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: allow	allow V;NFIN	allow V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Visitors will not be allowed in the other shuttles and this trainer is a true win for our dynamic museum.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: allowed	allow V;PST;V.PTCP	allow V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It will help inspire young people to the adventure of space and to the excitement of a career in science, technology, engineering and math."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: help	help V;NFIN	help V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Today's announcement is an affront to the thousands of dedicated men and women at Johnson Space Center, the greater Houston community and the State of Texas, and I’m deeply disappointed with the Administration's misguided decision.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disappointed	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP	disappoint V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Other items include various shuttle simulators which will be given to the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Illinois, the Evergreen Aviation & Space Museum of McMinnville, Oregon, and Texas A&M's Aerospace Engineering Department.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: include	include V;PRS;PL;3	include V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'NASA is also offering shuttle heat shield tiles to schools and universities that want to share technology and a piece of space history with their students.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: offering	offer V;PRS;V.PTCP	offer V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The 30th anniversary of the first shuttle mission coincided with the 50th anniversary of the first manned space flight when Yuri Gagarin lifted off aboard Vostok 1 into space.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coincided	coincide V;PST;SG;3	coincide V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Sensitive Canadian document found on rainy streets'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;3	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A sensitive Environment Canada document was found wet on an Ottawa street by someone who gave it to the CBC today.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The 131-page document was found on Castlefrank Road in Kanata, Ontario in a rain-stained, tire-marked brown envelope by a passerby.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The document which had the stamp Protected B on every page detailed various security vulnerabilities of the NEMISIS database which is used by officers to track and prosecute environmental law-breakers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'If someone were able to shut the system down, or hack inside and delete or corrupt the information, it could affect the prosecution of the lawbreakers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shut	shut V;NFIN	shut V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The database was unveiled in 1999 as the National Enforcement Management Information System and Intelligence System.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: unveiled	unveil V;PST;V.PTCP	unveil V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'However, on the document, it referred to the database as National Enforcement and Emergency Management Information System and Intelligence System, adding the words "and Emergency" to the name.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: referred	refer V;PST;SG;3	refer V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Protection B documents are the second lowest grade of classified government documents.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: classified	classify V;PST;V.PTCP	classify V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Environment Canada spokesperson Julie Hahn said they apply to letters of complaint, criticism or injury, research or scientific notes and findings that don`t have any conclusion, and Treasury Board letters, agendas and minutes that don`t deal with subjects of national interest.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Environment Minister John Baird has asked government officials how such documents that are supposed to be stored in "approved security cabinets" wound up on the street.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: asked	ask V;PST;V.PTCP	ask V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"I'm told two things: that it's neither classified nor secret and that it's stuff that could be available under access to information," Baird said.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;V.PTCP	tell V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Environment Canada spokeswoman Sujata Raisinghani told CBC News the department will look into the incident.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: told	tell V;PST;SG;3	tell V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: '"We take document security seriously," she said, but refused to give any more details about how the papers came to be on a road.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;PRS;1;PL	take V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Paul Dewar, an Ottawa New Democrat MP, said the combined security lapses raise serious questions about the government's ability to secure sensitive documents.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Dewar says that bureaucrats of the Conservative government have complained to him about document security to the point that they can`t share the information with their own colleagues.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: says	say V;PRS;SG;3	say V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'However, when a government document has been found on the streets, the government then says it wasn't particularly sensitive.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"This government is so consumed with control of information and secrecy yet they don't seem to be able to get the fundamentals right," Dewar said.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consumed	consume V;PST;V.PTCP	consume V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In March, a bundle of blueprints for a new headquarters for the military's counterterrorism unit were found stuffed in the trash on a downtown street.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In May, Maxime Bernier was forced to resign as Foreign Affairs minister after it became known that he left sensitive documents at the apartment of his then-girlfriend Julie Couillard who had ties to the Hells Angels biker gang.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: forced	force V;PST;V.PTCP	force V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"Sensitive government document found on rainy Ottawa street" — CBC.ca, August 15, 2008'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;3	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"Document found on street not secret, say feds" — The Canadian Press, August 15, 2008'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;3	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"Environment Canada security report found on street" — Toronto Star, August 15, 2008'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;3	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '"MP calls for probe into misplaced documents" — Edmonton Sun, August 16, 2008'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: calls	call V;PRS;SG;3	call V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Published'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Published	publish V;PST;V.PTCP	publish V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Archived'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Archived	archive V;PST;V.PTCP	archive V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'As the Western United States burns up with over seventy forest fires in thirteen states and Germany deals with the aftermath of devastating floods, the world's richest man, not counting Vladimir Putin, rocketed himself up to outer space for ten minutes at a cost of two point five million dollars every 60 seconds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;SG;3	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A Democracy Now! Segment on Thursday looked at the irony and dangers of billionaires fighting to privatize and monopolize space infrastructure while the Earth burns due to the man made climate catastrophe.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looked	look V;PST;SG;3	look V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'As an example of his utter lack of self-awareness, Bezos's own comments, after returning from his space adventure, admitted that his wealth is created by not only his customers, but his workers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: returning	return V;PRS;V.PTCP	return V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This, of course, reminds readers and listeners of the ProPublica story that exposed how little he and the billionaire class pay in taxes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reminds	remind V;PRS;SG;3	remind V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'They are all the undeserving recipients of corporate socialism, making their space tours.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: making	make V;PRS;V.PTCP	make V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I'm looking at you, Richard Branson.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looking	look V;PRS;V.PTCP	look V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Just another taxpayer funded giveaway to the richest men among us.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: funded	fund V;PST;SG;3	fund V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And so I reluctantly thank the goddess of irony.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thank	thank V;PRS;SG;1	thank V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'We live in a country where a living wage for all working men and women is somehow not affordable.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: live	live V;PRS;1;PL	live V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'But a man who pays almost nothing in taxes is free to go to outer space at the taxpayers' expense.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pays	pay V;PRS;SG;3	pay V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Thank you.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Thank	thank V;PRS;SG;1	thank V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'For what C-Span does.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: does	do V;PRS;SG;3	do V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Mr. McIntosh, my question to you is, how does the space programs by these various millionaire -- billionaires --'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: does	do V;PRS;SG;3	do V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It shows the failure of trickle down economics upon which you base a lot of your, you know, your stances and everything.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shows	show V;PRS;SG;3	show V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'How is -- how is that putting these billions into space instead of improving the conditions of the workers that make these people the richest men on Earth?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: putting	put V;PRS;V.PTCP	put V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You know, I'd like a better understanding on, you know, you're talking about welfare and everything else.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;2	know V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Yet at the same token, you ignore these stances where these billionaires are pouring money into -- all this money into space.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ignore	ignore V;PRS;SG;2	ignore V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'The only people who are able to fly with them are also billionaires and millionaires.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: fly	fly V;NFIN	fly V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Well, first of all, I'm actually really happy that it's not a government program where they're forcing taxpayers to spend the billions of dollars on something like that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: forcing	force V;PRS;V.PTCP	force V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You know, my view, honestly, is if somebody's been successful in creating a business and making money and the customers have rewarded them, so they've become a billionaire, if they want to spend it on building a rocket to outer space, that's their choice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;2	know V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'If they want to spend it on building mansions, they can do that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;PL;3	want V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'I -- I don't think it's the right role of government to tell people how to spend their money.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'David McIntosh, the Club for Growth, can kid himself with his self-assurance, as he did on Washington Journal last Friday, July sixteenth, by believing that the space exploration Bezos partook in was privately funded.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: kid	kid V;NFIN	kid V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But everyone in my neighborhood pays a higher percentage of their income in taxes than he pays on the beyond exorbitant and exceedingly gratuitous wealth that he lives off of.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pays	pay V;PRS;SG;3	pay V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Not to mention, The Hill Online newspaper reported in late May that a US competitiveness bill, then being debated on the Senate floor, included ten billion for Bezos's own space exploration company, Blue Origin.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mention	mention V;NFIN	mention V;NFIN
Given the context: 'This was also around the time Bezos had bought MGM for nine billion.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bought	bear V;PST;V.PTCP	buy V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So we're expected to forklift over, as a simple dinner fork won't cut it, the billions needed for him, again, arguably the richest man on Earth, to acquire more wealth, and as the cherry on top, deliver him one billion more.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: expected	expect V;PST;V.PTCP	expect V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'According to the report published by ProPublica last month, the median American household brings in around seventy thousand a year and pays fourteen percent in federal income taxes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: According	accord V;PRS;V.PTCP	accord V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In short, Americans subsidized the fruits of Jeff Bezos' midlife crisis.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: subsidized	subsidize V;PST;PL;3	subsidize V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'I worry that we are getting closer and closer to the experience of the little people in the sci-fi film Elysium, starring Matt Damon.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: worry	worry V;PRS;SG;1	worry V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'In the film, the rich, after exploiting the world to the point that it's practically uninhabitable, have moved on to an artificial world, Elysium that might as well be on our moon.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: exploiting	exploit V;PRS;V.PTCP	exploit V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And those that remain on Earth, the rest of us, continue working in what could realistically be a future Amazon warehouse.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remain	remain V;PRS;PL;3	remain V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Later in the Democracy Now! segment, the broadcast aired parts of an MSNBC interview with Bezos, who, in completely out of touch fashion, adamantly expressed that we should preserve our, quote, beautiful gem, end quote, also known as Earth, by transporting polluting industries to outer space, something he acknowledged would take, quote, decades to achieve, end quote.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: aired	air V;PST;SG;3	air V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Strayer knows much of what he knows because of the experiments he runs at his Applied Cognition Laboratory in Salt Lake City.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: knows	know V;PRS;SG;3	know V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Often, he measures how people perform one task once they are given a second task.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: measures	measure V;PRS;SG;3	measure V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We think about multitasking as trying to do two separate, cognitively based tasks at the same time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;1;PL	think V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'A classic example, one that just about everybody attempts to do, is drive a car and talk on a cell phone.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attempts	attempt V;PRS;SG;3	attempt V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We don’t do that well, and more and more people have these gadgets in the car they bring with them, or the car itself becomes a platform for multitasking, and we don’t do it well.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: do	do V;NFIN	do V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Now, it would seem obvious — at least to me, maybe I’m wrong — that not all multitasking is either difficult, and certainly not as dangerous, as driving in a car and trying to do something else that’s cognitively and/or physically demanding.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seem	seem V;NFIN	seem V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Can you give me some examples of what you see as benign or, in fact, productive multitasking?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: give	give V;NFIN	give V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I would actually just say that even the simplest things, like walking and talking, which you’d think would be pretty automatic, turn out to be tasks that compete.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: say	say V;NFIN	say V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So, if you’re walking without talking, as soon as you start talking, you’ll see that the pace of your walk changes, and you may be more likely to trip.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: walking	walk V;PRS;V.PTCP	walk V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Anything that is depending on attention to be able to process the world is susceptible to dual-task interference, or problems associated with multitasking.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: depending	depend V;PRS;V.PTCP	depend V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A simple example we give is saying the letters of the alphabet: A, B, C, D, E, or counting, one, two, three, four, five.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: give	give V;PRS;1;PL	give V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'But if you try and combine them and do something like, A1, B2, C3, D4, you’ll quickly find that that becomes difficult, you start to forget where you are.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: try	try V;PRS;SG;2	try V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'And those are two super-well-learned tasks that you can do by themselves.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: learned	learn V;PST;V.PTCP	learn V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But when you try and mix them together, you get all jumbled.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: try	try V;PRS;SG;2	try V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'As soon as you start to multitask, performance on both of the tasks start to degrade.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: start	start V;PRS;SG;2	start V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Now, how much of that is a function of attempting to multitask versus the fact that we learn habits and patterns and memorize things that become rote, that we don’t need to engage our cognitive process at all?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attempting	attempt V;PRS;V.PTCP	attempt V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'You can become automatic at certain aspects of performance.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: become	become V;NFIN	become V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So, a lot of things kind of just happen without consciously thinking about them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: happen	happen V;PRS;PL;3	happen V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'But new things, new activities or new environments, demand you to pay attention, to allocate the prefrontal cortex to process some of that information that’s new and novel.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: demand	demand V;PRS;PL;3	demand V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'That’s the real problem, is that if you’re always in a situation where everything’s exactly routine, you’re not stressing the parts of the brain that are responsible for multitasking.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stressing	stress V;PRS;V.PTCP	stress V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'But as soon as you have some novel activity — like talking, like driving a car, riding a bicycle — you have to pay attention to what you’re doing.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'You have to engage the prefrontal executive attentional networks.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Do you know anything, or think much about, multitasking and multitasking failures in other high-stakes settings beyond driving, whether it’s military decisions or political decisions, business decisions?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;NFIN	know V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So we’ve looked in the medical domain, medical human factors: you can see it in terms of, say, delivery of medicine at a pharmacy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: looked	look V;PST;V.PTCP	look V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If the pharmacist is constantly being interrupted with calls, they’re going to fill the prescription incorrectly.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: interrupted	interrupt V;PST;V.PTCP	interrupt V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If an anesthesiologist or a surgeon is distracted by the technology in the operating room, that can create a problem.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: distracted	distract V;PST;V.PTCP	distract V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the operating room, it’s not just the phone, although that’s sometimes present, but you have all the displays and technology.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Each one of those are creating alarms that creates this whirl of noise, and alerts and distractions that compete for the anesthesiologist’s and the surgeon’s attention.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: creating	create V;PRS;V.PTCP	create V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So I’ve been reading about how the modern worker, let’s say in the U.S. — they could be in marketing, they could be at a nonprofit, could be in finance, whatever — that if you’re working with a computer, which describes many, many, many, many of us now obviously, that one big change in the last 15 or 20 years is how many pieces of software and how many platforms are — I don’t want to say fighting for your attention necessarily, that sounds a little a little more pejorative than I mean it to be, but how in the course of your workday, you need to switch and switch and switch and switch.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reading	read V;PRS;V.PTCP	read V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We all may have multiple pieces of communication software, multiple pieces of productivity software, and so on.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Can you talk about that, what seems to be a relatively low-stakes environment — the workplace in a marketing firm or whatever — but how our attention is being carved up during the course of the day?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: talk	talk V;NFIN	talk V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I mean, the research shows that you have a loss of productivity when you’re trying to multitask — just the opposite of what you think.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mean	mean V;PRS;SG;1	mean V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'So you may think “If I’m multitasking, I’m going to get a lot more things done.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;NFIN	think V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But what happens is, a big chunk of our day is lost as we’re switching from one task to the other to the other.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: happens	happen V;PRS;SG;3	happen V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'What they find is that the best way to be productive in the office is to try and focus on one task at a time, focus on just sending that memo out, writing that email, doing whatever that operation is for a short period of time, then take a break and then come back to it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;PRS;PL;3	find V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Don’t try and juggle back and forth because you’ll get confused, you’ll get lost, you’ll be this — “Where was I?” kind of switch cost.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: try	try V;NFIN	try V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'This year has once again confirmed the importance of the United Nations as the truly indispensable multilateral forum for addressing today’s global problems.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: confirmed	confirm V;PST;V.PTCP	confirm V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The humanitarian crisis in the Horn of Africa, ecological disasters such as Fukushima, political developments like the Arab Spring and terrorist attacks such as the assault on the United Nations building in Abuja last August require concerted action by the United Nations and its Member States.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Ten years after 9/11, joint action in the fight against terrorism continues to remain central on the multilateral agenda.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continues	continue V;PRS;SG;3	continue V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'In the past nine months, we have witnessed momentous changes in the Arab world that nobody expected when we met one year ago.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: witnessed	witness V;PST;V.PTCP	witness V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Pressure for change is driven by the wish of women and men to choose their own fate and to improve their chances for a better life.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: driven	drive V;PST;V.PTCP	drive V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'An overwhelming number of young people were at the forefront of this enormous tide, which started in Tunisia and Egypt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: started	start V;PST;SG;3	start V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'We should pay tribute to their courage.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pay	pay V;NFIN	pay V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In Libya, thousands lost their lives in the struggle for freedom and democracy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lost	lose V;PST;PL;3	lose V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Austria strongly condemns the systematic human rights violations and the violence against peaceful demonstrators.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: condemns	condemn V;PRS;SG;3	condemn V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We strongly urge those responsible to immediately stop the bloodshed and to engage in meaningful dialogue and reforms.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: urge	urge V;PRS;1;PL	urge V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Austria supports the Libyan people in its struggle for freedom.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: supports	support V;PRS;SG;3	support V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Over € 150 million blocked in Austrian bank accounts has been de-frozen for humanitarian use.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: blocked	block V;PST;V.PTCP	block V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Both the Austrian Government and private sector have provided medicine, relief supplies and desperately needed fuel to Libya.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provided	provide V;PST;V.PTCP	provide V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The international community and the United Nations have to support and assist the transition process in the Arab world as the United Nations does now in Libya.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This period of change may last for some time and will be full of challenges.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: last	last V;NFIN	last V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Austria welcomes all efforts undertaken by Governments in the region for peaceful and credible change.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: welcomes	welcome V;PRS;SG;3	welcome V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We encourage the newly empowered authorities to create a constitutional framework based on democracy and human rights, in order to fulfil their mandate for democratic change responsibly and peacefully.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: encourage	encourage V;PRS;1;PL	encourage V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'The events in the Arab world notwithstanding, we must continue to focus on the Middle East peace process.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continue	continue V;NFIN	continue V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The Middle East took centre stage this week here at the General Assembly — and rightly so.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;3	take V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'We must build trust and we have to foster the belief among Israelis and Palestinians that a negotiated settlement can be achieved — a sustainable solution based on two States living side by side in a secure and peaceful neighbourhood within mutually recognized borders.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: build	build V;NFIN	build V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We have no choice but to return to direct negotiations between the two parties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'The Quartet, in its statement yesterday, has shown a way to do that and has also proposed concrete timelines.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shown	show V;PST;V.PTCP	show V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Austria fully supports the Quartet statement.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: supports	support V;PRS;SG;3	support V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'There is no time to lose.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: is	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Austria welcomes President Al-Nasser’s choice of theme for this year’s general debate.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: welcomes	welcome V;PRS;SG;3	welcome V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We appreciate Qatar’s strong track record in that regard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appreciate	appreciate V;PRS;1;PL	appreciate V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Last year’s tenth anniversary of the adoption of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security reminded us that the promise of women’s full and equal participation in all efforts of maintaining peace and security, including in mediation processes, has not yet come true and that we all need to intensify our efforts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reminded	remind V;PST;SG;3	remind V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In that context, let me also mention an Austrian contribution to international mediation efforts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'By inviting political decision-makers from both Khartoum and Juba to Vienna in recent years, Austria has managed to offer the two sides a platform for discussion.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: inviting	invite V;PRS;V.PTCP	invite V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We are ready to continue to do so.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continue	continue V;NFIN	continue V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The Sudan and South Sudan have a shared past and must resolve their remaining problems peacefully.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;PL;3	have V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The United Nations headquarters in Vienna serves as a dynamic hub for the promotion of peace, security and sustainable development.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I am proud to announce that a liaison office of the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs will open in Vienna soon.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: announce	announce V;NFIN	announce V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Over the past year, the International Anti-Corruption Academy set up its headquarters near Vienna, and the Vienna Centre for Disarmament and Non-Proliferation and an office of the International Peace Institute were established.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: set	set V;PST;SG;3	set V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Austria fully stands behind the campaign launched by the Secretary-General on Monday to achieve universal access to modern energy services.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stands	stand V;PRS;SG;3	stand V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We support doubling the rate of improvement in energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: support	support V;PRS;1;PL	support V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Austria provides substantial support to the energy and environment efforts undertaken by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provides	provide V;PRS;SG;3	provide V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Last June, we hosted the Vienna Energy Forum, where about 1,400 participants discussed alternative energy concepts to reach the energy goals of the United Nations.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hosted	host V;PST;1;PL	host V;PST;1;PL
Given the context: 'The Fukushima nuclear catastrophe should become a turning point in our approach to nuclear safety.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: become	become V;NFIN	become V;NFIN
Given the context: 'We owe it to future generations to make safety concerns come first when using nuclear power.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: owe	owe V;PRS;1;PL	owe V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'Austria decided, in 1978, to forgo the use of nuclear energy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: decided	decide V;PST;SG;3	decide V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Some countries have recently adopted a similar course, which we welcome.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: adopted	adopt V;PST;V.PTCP	adopt V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I wish to make a ministerial statement about the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in New Zealand.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wish	wish V;PRS;SG;1	wish V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'On Friday, 28 February, New Zealand recorded its first case of the COVID-19 coronavirus, becoming the 48th country to have a confirmed case.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recorded	record V;PST;SG;3	record V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The individual had entered the country two days earlier after spending some weeks in Iran, which is currently experiencing a sizable outbreak of the disease.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: entered	enter V;PST;V.PTCP	enter V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I can report to the House that they are currently in a stable and improving condition at Auckland Hospital.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: report	report V;NFIN	report V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The good news in this instance is that the individual had limited contact with people upon their return to the country, and their family took all the appropriate measures when presenting at the emergency department.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	limit V;PST;V.PTCP	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'As you would expect, our public health service is working hard to contain this first case and limit the risk of any spread of the disease.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: expect	expect V;NFIN	expect V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Contact tracing began immediately and has gone to plan.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: began	begin V;PST;SG;3	begin V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'All 15 people who were seated nearby the individual on their flight into New Zealand have been traced and are being told to self-isolate.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seated	seat V;PST;V.PTCP	seat V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Public health staff will remain in touch with individuals to monitor the situation and give ongoing advice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remain	remain V;NFIN	remain V;NFIN
Given the context: 'All but 10 of the remaining passengers on the flight, who are not considered to be close contacts, have also been contacted to provide reassurance and answer any questions they might have; those 10 that haven't been contacted did not provide accurate contact information.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remaining	remain V;PRS;V.PTCP	remain V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I'm advised that as a result of our decisive response, the chance of an outbreak from our first case is low.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: advised	advise V;PST;V.PTCP	advise V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Internationally, the situation with COVID-19 continues to develop at pace.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continues	continue V;PRS;SG;3	continue V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'However, the Director-General of the World Health Organization said, this morning, containment … is feasible and must remain the top priority for all countries.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'This is exactly the approach that New Zealand is taking, using three main tools: border controls; self-isolation; and good public health practices, including highlighting the importance of basic hygiene.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taking	take V;PRS;V.PTCP	take V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'At every step, the Government has taken decisions in the interests of health and safety of the wider public, and so far we have been among the best at keeping COVID-19 at bay.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Just yesterday, Cabinet decided to extend for another week the travel restrictions that have been in place for China since 3 February and for Iran since last Friday.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: decided	decide V;PST;SG;3	decide V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'These restrictions have played a key role in keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand for so long and have given us time to better understand the disease and ramp up our preparations.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: played	play V;PST;V.PTCP	play V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Of course, members will be aware that there are outbreaks in other regions as well.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'So, as a further precaution, we have decided that anyone arriving in New Zealand who has been in northern Italy or South Korea who has been there in the last 14 days will be registered for self-isolation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: decided	decide V;PST;V.PTCP	decide V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This is based on an expert assessment of risk.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: based	base V;PST;V.PTCP	base V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It recognises that while there are outbreaks in both countries, they also have well-developed health systems and the outbreaks are largely located in specific regions.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recognises	recognise V;PRS;SG;3	recognize V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'We know self-isolation works.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;1;PL	know V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'It is a longstanding and successful approach to managing infectious diseases and has proven its worth again in recent weeks.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: managing	manage V;PRS;V.PTCP	manage V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'We have also stepped up the health presence at our airports.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stepped	step V;PST;V.PTCP	step V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'All airlines flying into New Zealand have been requested to read a health message upon landing, and all arrivals into New Zealand will receive health information cards alongside the standard customs declaration form.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: flying	fly V;PRS;V.PTCP	fly V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'As a result of decisions taken on Friday, health staff are meeting all direct international flights landing in New Zealand airports from Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and Thailand.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taken	take V;PST;V.PTCP	take V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Our border response is further ramping up to have health staff available for all international flights into New Zealand.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ramping	ramp V;PRS;V.PTCP	ramp V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'All these decisions and actions are designed to limit the spread of any sporadic COVID-19 cases that might arrive in New Zealand.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: designed	design V;PST;V.PTCP	design V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'At the same time, our health system continues its preparations in line with our comprehensive pandemic plan.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continues	continue V;PRS;SG;3	continue V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'I want to thank our DHBs, public health staff, and primary care and health officials for the work they are doing to protect the public.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;1	want V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I have high confidence in our medical professionals.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;1	have V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'We have a strong public health system.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'We continue to work to keep COVID-19 out, but we are ready if it arrives in our community.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continue	continue V;PRS;1;PL	continue V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'State the postulates of Dalton’s atomic theory'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: State	state V;IMP;2	state V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'Use postulates of Dalton’s atomic theory to explain the laws of definite and multiple proportions'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Use	use V;IMP;2	use V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'The earliest recorded discussion of the basic structure of matter comes from ancient Greek philosophers, the scientists of their day.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: recorded	record V;PST;V.PTCP	record V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the fifth century BC, Leucippus and Democritus argued that all matter was composed of small, finite particles that they called atomos, a term derived from the Greek word for “indivisible.”'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: argued	argue V;PST;PL;3	argue V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'They thought of atoms as moving particles that differed in shape and size, and which could join together.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thought	think V;PST;PL;3	think V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Later, Aristotle and others came to the conclusion that matter consisted of various combinations of the four “elements” —fire, earth, air, and water—and could be infinitely divided.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: came	come V;PST;PL;3	come V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Interestingly, these philosophers thought about atoms and “elements” as philosophical concepts, but apparently never considered performing experiments to test their ideas.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thought	think V;PST;PL;3	think V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The Aristotelian view of the composition of matter held sway for over two thousand years, until English schoolteacher John Dalton helped to revolutionize chemistry with his hypothesis that the behavior of matter could be explained using an atomic theory.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: held	help V;PST;SG;3	hold V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'First published in 1807, many of Dalton’s hypotheses about the microscopic features of matter are still valid in modern atomic theory.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: published	publish V;PST;V.PTCP	publish V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: '1. Matter is composed of exceedingly small particles called atoms.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: composed	compose V;PST;V.PTCP	compose V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'An atom is the smallest unit of an element that can participate in a chemical change.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: participate	participate V;NFIN	participate V;NFIN
Given the context: '2. An element consists of only one type of atom, which has a mass that is characteristic of the element and is the same for all atoms of that element (Figure 2.2).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consists	consist V;PRS;SG;3	consist V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'A macroscopic sample of an element contains an incredibly large number of atoms, all of which have identical chemical properties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: contains	contain V;PRS;SG;3	contain V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'A pre-1982 copper penny (left) contains approximately 3 ×× 1022 copper atoms (several dozen are represented as brown spheres at the right), each of which has the same chemical properties.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: contains	contain V;PRS;SG;3	contain V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '3. Atoms of one element differ in properties from atoms of all other elements.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: differ	differ V;PRS;PL;3	differ V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: '4. A compound consists of atoms of two or more elements combined in a small, whole-number ratio.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consists	consist V;PRS;SG;3	consist V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'In a given compound, the numbers of atoms of each of its elements are always present in the same ratio (Figure 2.3).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Copper(II) oxide, a powdery, black compound, results from the combination of two types of atoms—copper (brown spheres) and oxygen (red spheres)—in a 1:1 ratio.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: results	result V;PRS;SG;3	result V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '5. Atoms are neither created nor destroyed during a chemical change, but are instead rearranged to yield substances that are different from those present before the change (Figure 2.4).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: created	create V;PST;V.PTCP	create V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'When the elements copper (a shiny, red-brown solid, shown here as brown spheres) and oxygen (a clear and colorless gas, shown here as red spheres) react, their atoms rearrange to form a compound containing copper and oxygen (a powdery, black solid).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shown	show V;PST;V.PTCP	show V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Dalton’s atomic theory provides a microscopic explanation of the many macroscopic properties of matter that you’ve learned about.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provides	provide V;PRS;SG;3	provide V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'For example, if an element such as copper consists of only one kind of atom, then it cannot be broken down into simpler substances, that is, into substances composed of fewer types of atoms.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consists	consist V;PRS;SG;3	consist V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And if atoms are neither created nor destroyed during a chemical change, then the total mass of matter present when matter changes from one type to another will remain constant (the law of conservation of matter).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: created	create V;PST;V.PTCP	create V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Testing Dalton’s Atomic Theory'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Testing	test V;PRS;V.PTCP	test V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the following drawing, the green spheres represent atoms of a certain element.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: following	follow V;PRS;PL;3	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The purple spheres represent atoms of another element.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: represent	represent V;PRS;PL;3	represent V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'If the spheres touch, they are part of a single unit of a compound.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: touch	touch V;PRS;PL;3	touch V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Does the following chemical change represented by these symbols violate any of the ideas of Dalton’s atomic theory?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: following	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The starting materials consist of two green spheres and two purple spheres.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consist	consist V;PRS;PL;3	consist V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The products consist of only one green sphere and one purple sphere.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consist	consist V;PRS;PL;3	consist V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'This violates Dalton’s postulate that atoms are neither created nor destroyed during a chemical change, but are merely redistributed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: violates	violate V;PRS;SG;3	violate V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: '(In this case, atoms appear to have been destroyed.)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: appear	appear V;PRS;PL;3	appear V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Check Your Learning'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Check	check V;IMP;2	check V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'In the following drawing, the green spheres represent atoms of a certain element.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: following	follow V;PRS;PL;3	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The purple spheres represent atoms of another element.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: represent	represent V;PRS;PL;3	represent V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'If the spheres touch, they are part of a single unit of a compound.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: touch	touch V;PRS;PL;3	touch V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Does the following chemical change represented by these symbols violate any of the ideas of Dalton’s atomic theory?'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: following	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP	follow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The starting materials consist of four green spheres and two purple spheres.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consist	consist V;PRS;PL;3	consist V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The products consist of four green spheres and two purple spheres.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: consist	consist V;PRS;PL;3	consist V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'This does not violate any of Dalton’s postulates:'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: violate	violate V;NFIN	violate V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Atoms are neither created nor destroyed, but are redistributed in small, whole-number ratios.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: created	create V;PST;V.PTCP	create V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Describe the reasons why many Americans doubted that Abraham Lincoln would be reelected'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Describe	describe V;IMP;2	describe V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'Explain how the Union forces overpowered the Confederacy'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Explain	explain V;IMP;2	explain V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'Describe the contributions and experiences of African Americans serving in the Civil War'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Describe	describe V;IMP;2	describe V;NFIN;2
Given the context: 'By the outset of 1864, after three years of war, the Union had mobilized its resources for the ongoing struggle on a massive scale.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mobilized	mobilize V;PST;V.PTCP	mobilize V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The government had overseen the construction of new railroad lines and for the first time used standardized rail tracks that allowed the North to move men and materials with greater ease.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: overseen	oversee V;PST;V.PTCP	oversee V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The North’s economy had shifted to a wartime model.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shifted	shift V;PST;V.PTCP	shift V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Confederacy also mobilized, perhaps to a greater degree than the Union, its efforts to secure independence and maintain slavery.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mobilized	mobilize V;PST;SG;3	mobilize V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Yet the Confederacy experienced ever - greater hardships after years of war.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: experienced	experience V;PST;SG;3	experience V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Without the population of the North, it faced a shortage of manpower.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: faced	face V;PST;SG;3	face V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The lack of industry, compared to the North, undercut the ability to sustain and wage war.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: compared	compare V;PST;V.PTCP	compare V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Rampant inflation as well as food shortages in the South lowered morale.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lowered	lower V;PST;V.PTCP	lower V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'From the beginning of the war, the Confederacy placed great hope in being recognized and supported by Great Britain and France.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: placed	place V;PST;SG;3	place V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'European intervention in the conflict remained a strong possibility, but when it did occur, it was not in a way anticipated by either the Confederacy or the Union.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: remained	remain V;PST;SG;3	remain V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Napoleon III of France believed the Civil War presented an opportunity for him to restore a French empire in the Americas.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: believed	believe V;PST;SG;3	believe V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'With the United States preoccupied, the time seemed ripe for action.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: United	unite V;PST;V.PTCP	Unite V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Napoleon’s target was Mexico, and in 1861, a large French fleet took Veracruz.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: took	take V;PST;SG;3	take V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The French then moved to capture Mexico City, but the advance came to an end when Mexican forces defeated the French in 1862.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: moved	move V;PST;SG;3	move V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Despite this setback, France eventually did conquer Mexico, establishing a regime that lasted until 1867.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: conquer	conquer V;NFIN	conquer V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Rather than coming to the aid of the Confederacy, France used the Civil War to provide a pretext for efforts to reestablish its former eighteenth - century colonial holdings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coming	come V;PRS;V.PTCP	come V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Still, the Confederacy had great confidence that it would find an ally in Great Britain despite the antislavery sentiment there.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Southerners hoped Britain’s dependence on cotton for its textile mills would keep the country on their side.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hoped	hope V;PST;PL;3	hope V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The fact that the British proved willing to build and sell ironclad ships intended to smash through the Union naval blockade further raised Southern hopes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: proved	prove V;PST;SG;3	prove V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The Confederacy purchased two of these armored blockade runners, the CSS Florida and the CSS Alabama.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: purchased	purchase V;PST;SG;3	purchase V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Both were destroyed during the war.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: destroyed	destroy V;PST;V.PTCP	destroy V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Confederacy’s staunch commitment to slavery eventually worked against British recognition and support, since Great Britain had abolished slavery in 1833.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: worked	work V;PST;SG;3	work V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The 1863 Emancipation Proclamation ended any doubts the British had about the goals of the Union cause.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ended	end V;PST;SG;3	end V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In the aftermath of the proclamation, many in Great Britain cheered for a Union victory.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: cheered	cheer V;PST;SG;3	cheer V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Ultimately, Great Britain, like France, disappointed the Confederacy’s hope of an alliance, leaving the outnumbered and out - resourced states that had left the Union to fend for themselves.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: disappointed	disappoint V;PST;SG;3	disappoint V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'At the beginning of the war, in 1861 and 1862, Union forces had used contrabands, or escaped enslaved people, for manual labor.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: used	use V;PST;V.PTCP	use V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The Emancipation Proclamation, however, led to the enrollment of African American men as Union soldiers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: led	leave V;PST;SG;3	lead V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Huge numbers of formerly enslaved as well as free Black people from the North enlisted, and by the end of the war in 1865, their numbers had swelled to over 190,000.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: enslaved	enslave V;PST;V.PTCP	enslave V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Racism among White people in the Union army ran deep, however, fueling the belief that Black soldiers could never be effective or trustworthy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ran	rink V;PST;SG;3	run V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'The Union also feared for the fate of captured Black soldiers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: feared	fear V;PST;SG;3	fear V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'Although many Black soldiers saw combat duty, these factors affected the types of tasks assigned to them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: saw	see V;PST;PL;3	see V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Many Black regiments were limited to hauling supplies, serving as cooks, digging trenches, and doing other types of labor, rather than serving on the battlefield (Figure 15.16).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: limited	limit V;PST;V.PTCP	limit V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This 1865 daguerreotype illustrates three of the Union’s distinct advantages: African American soldiers, a stream of cannons and supplies, and an extensive railroad grid. (credit: Library of Congress)'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: illustrates	illustrate V;PRS;SG;3	illustrate V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'African American soldiers also received lower wages than their White counterparts: ten dollars per month, with three dollars deducted for clothing.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: received	receive V;PST;PL;3	receive V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'White soldiers, in contrast, received thirteen dollars monthly, with no deductions.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: received	receive V;PST;PL;3	receive V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Abolitionists and their Republican supporters in Congress worked to correct this discriminatory practice, and in 1864, Black soldiers began to receive the same pay as White soldiers plus retroactive pay to 1863 (Figure 15.17).'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: worked	work V;PST;PL;3	work V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'African American and White soldiers of the Union army pose together in this photograph, although in reality, Black soldiers were often kept separate and given only menial jobs.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: pose	pose V;PRS;PL;3	pose V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'For their part, African American soldiers welcomed the opportunity to prove themselves.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: welcomed	welcome V;PST;PL;3	welcome V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Some 85 percent were formerly enslaved people who were fighting for the liberation of all of the enslaved and the end of slavery.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: enslaved	enslave V;PST;V.PTCP	enslave V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'When given the opportunity to serve, many Black regiments did so heroically.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: given	give V;PST;V.PTCP	give V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'One such regiment, the Fifty-Fourth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, distinguished itself at Fort Wagner in South Carolina by fighting valiantly against an entrenched Confederate position.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: distinguished	distinguish V;PST;SG;3	distinguish V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'They willingly gave their lives for the cause.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gave	give V;PST;PL;3	give V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'The Confederacy, not surprisingly, showed no mercy to African American troops.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: showed	show V;PST;SG;3	show V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'In April 1864, Southern forces attempted to take Fort Pillow in Tennessee from the Union forces that had captured it in 1862.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attempted	attempt V;PST;PL;3	attempt V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Confederate troops under Major General Nathan Bedford Forrest, the future founder of the Ku Klux Klan, quickly overran the fort, and the Union defenders surrendered.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: overran	overread V;PST;PL;3	overrun V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'Instead of taking the African American soldiers prisoner, as they did the White soldiers, the Confederates executed them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: taking	take V;PRS;V.PTCP	take V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The massacre outraged the North, and the Union refused to engage in any future exchanges of prisoners with the Confederacy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: outraged	outrage V;PST;SG;3	outrage V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'So in today's video, I'm finally gonna be doing a room tour.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I know this is something that you guys have requested for a very long time, and after two and a half years of living here, I finally feel like I've made it my own and decorated it how I want, and I'm ready to show it to you guys.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;1	know V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'Alright so let's start off with the bed and the couch area.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Honestly, if I was redoing this from the beginning, I would have really liked to have a double bed in this room, but, unfortunately, with the space as you can probably see from that wall there till the door, it's basically just enough to fit a bed and a couch, and this is my couch over here.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: redoing	redo V;PRS;V.PTCP	redo V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I've recently changed it, and if you've been following my channel for a long time, then you'll know I'm really proud of how I color match the pictures on the wall over here with sort of the gray and yellow vibe, the gray and yellow cushions.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: changed	change V;PST;V.PTCP	change V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'This couch is also quite big, it fits three people quite comfortably, and if I have family or friends staying over, it opens up into a full double bed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: fits	fit V;PRS;SG;3	fit V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'This coffee table over here, it's glass and has two levels, so it's really good when we have multiple friends over, and we have lots of food to put on the table, or if we're playing board games, we can have people sit around it, and still have a lot of space to lay everything out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'So there's nothing too special about the bed itself, but it does have a very important function, which, it has a lot of storage.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: 's	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'So down here is basically where I keep everything that I can't really keep in my room, because there's not enough space.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: keep	keep V;PRS;SG;3	keep V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I've got an ironing board, all of my suitcases, socks, clothes that I don't wear that often, anything that I need for fixing the house like screwdrivers, drills, nails, all these things that I definitely wouldn't want to have laid out in my room, but I still need somewhere in the house.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;V.PTCP	get V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I love that this room has floor-to-ceiling windows as well, it really lets the light come in, especially in the summer time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: love	love V;PRS;SG;1	love V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I know London doesn't have that much light, but I'll take as much as I can, and there's also a small balcony out here, which is fairly rare for London.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;SG;1	know V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'We have two chairs where we can sit down and sort of enjoy the weather when it is a little bit better, um but now it's really cold so just gonna close it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;1;PL	have V;PRS;1;PL
Given the context: 'And then a little behind the scenes that you probably will never see again in a video is that down here I keep all of the filming gear that doesn't really fit anywhere else in the room: two sets of tripods, I also have a c-stand.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: see	see V;NFIN	see V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Okay next to my bed, I've got the radio alarm clock, and this has actually changed my life.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;V.PTCP	get V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It makes waking up in the morning and getting out of bed at 6:00 a.m. when it's pitch black outside so much easier when you're waking up really early.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: makes	make V;PRS;SG;3	make V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It's so much better to wake up to the sound of somebody talking to you: your favorite radio station, some music, whatever, instead of that classic iPhone alarm, "ba, ba, ba."'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wake	wake V;NFIN	wake V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Over here on the wall, these are posters that I actually bought back in 2013 in my first year of university in Toronto, and I really really liked them so I've kept them around.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bought	bear V;PST;SG;1	buy V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Also I'm really proud that I managed to put them up all by myself, they look quite neat, and I feel like they're equally spaced, so I'm really proud of how they turned out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: managed	manage V;PST;SG;1	manage V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'Today I'm doing another college day in my life.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: doing	do V;PRS;V.PTCP	do V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And I just left Starbucks, don't mind what I look like.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: left	leave V;PST;SG;1	leave V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I literally just pretty much woke up and left this morning.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: woke	weak V;PST;SG;1	wake V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I'm starting the review for all the chapters for my final exam, and it is a lot of information so I already planned on getting up early today and going.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: starting	start V;PRS;V.PTCP	start V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'And then I'm gonna do the same thing tomorrow.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I basically like created a digital calendar where I'm gonna go over each of the chapters, just because I only have one week left to study.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: created	create V;PST;SG;1	create V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I'm back home now, and I basically just typed up a little calendar laying out the chapters that I have left to review before Tuesday.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: typed	type V;PST;SG;1	type V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'That's my final list and I hate that, like, this week is our Thanksgiving break and then we literally come back Tuesday and take our final.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: hate	hate V;PRS;SG;1	hate V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'So I'm gonna be studying on Thanksgiving Day, Black Friday, and the whole weekend even though we're going getting our Christmas tree I think on Saturday, and I I'm not decorating I'm not doing anything fun, like I have to study.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I thought I would show you guys kind of how I'm mapping this out, because it's a really good tip if you have like a lot to do.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: thought	think V;PST;SG;1	think V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'So today I'm doing female reproductive system, male reproductive system tomorrow.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: doing	do V;PRS;V.PTCP	do V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I work on Wednesday, I'm going to go over chapter 29 fluid balance, chapter 28 so urinary system on the 29th.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: work	work V;PRS;SG;1	work V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'And then on Sunday, I'll be doing chapters 23 through 27 and I just made this on my iPad and then printed it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: doing	do V;PRS;V.PTCP	do V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I did not include my schedule for college algebra because I have a final on Thursday of next week for that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: include	include V;NFIN	include V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So I'm going to go in with like a different color and add in the chapters I'm gonna be studying for that, but I'm super stressed.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: going	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I bought these Vans from DSW.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bought	bear V;PST;SG;1	buy V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'You guys know I have the white ones and I wear them all the time and these ones are just like black perforated Vans.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;PRS;PL;2	know V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'I love them and they are definitely the right size because I have two other pairs of Vans that are this size, but one of these ones is like messed up or something.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: love	love V;PRS;SG;1	love V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'I think it's like this part on the left foot because my foot feels super tight in only the left side, so something's up because they're both the right size but I don't know.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: think	think V;PRS;SG;1	think V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'So I'm gonna exchange them for another pair because something's not right about that.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'So I just got finished at the library.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;V.PTCP	get V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I just sat in there for like an hour and a half straight and studied.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sat	sit V;PST;SG;1	sit V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'I'm really proud of myself and now I'm about to go get some lunch, and go to DSW and see if I can exchange those Vans.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'So while I was in the library one of you guys came up to me, and said hi.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: came	come V;PST;SG;1	come V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'I feel so bad because I was so in the zone that I didn't even get her name.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: feel	feel V;PRS;SG;1	feel V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'But if you're watching this, hi thank you so much for coming and saying hi to me you actually made my whole day.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: watching	watch V;PRS;V.PTCP	watch V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'She said she watches my videos and loves them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: said	say V;PST;SG;3	say V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And you guys are so sweet, I love making videos and it's so nice to have that support.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: love	love V;PRS;SG;1	love V;PRS;SG;1
Given the context: 'So if you do go to FGCU and you ever see me on campus, like feel free to say hi because you'll make my day.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: go	go V;NFIN	go V;NFIN
Given the context: 'I just got out of DSW, and I spent like 30 minutes in there because it was just such a process for them to do an exchange.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: got	get V;PST;SG;1	get V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'And then she had to scan and go get the shoes and then she said they didn't have the size.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'So I ended up having to order them, but she said there was no way to do a direct exchange.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ended	end V;PST;SG;1	end V;PST;SG;1
Given the context: 'So she had to give me a return and then re-ring it up.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: had	have V;PST;SG;3	have V;PST;SG;3
Given the context: 'And oh my gosh I was literally in there for like 25 minutes all to just do a simple exchange for the exact same shoe.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: do	do V;NFIN	do V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But it's over now and they're gonna send them to me in the mail.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'I'm just kind of sad that they didn't have them in stock, so now I have to wait.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'But oh well it's over with now, we're gonna go get lunch.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gon	go V;PRS;V.PTCP	go V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Understand'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Understand	understand V;IMP;2	understand V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Some of the distinctive skyline of Downtown, including the Kaiser Building and the Cathedral of Christ the Light.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: including	include V;PRS;V.PTCP	include V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Often overshadowed by San Francisco, its larger neighbor lying directly to the west, Oakland has in recent years began to step out from under the shadows, playing upon the beautiful highlights of its own and its rise as the multicultural "hipster' city of the Bay Area.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: overshadowed	overshadow V;PST;V.PTCP	overshadow V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Oakland's history in the arts and entertainment arena is notable as well, as Oakland has nurtured or been a second home to novelists Gertrude Stein, Jack London, Amy Tan, and Maya Angelou; actors Meryl Streep, Mark Hamill, Bruce Lee, and Tom Hanks; architect Julia "Butterfly" Hill; classical conductor Calvin Simmons; rappers MC Hammer, 2Pac, Messy Marv, and several other notables in the liberal arts and sciences.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: nurtured	nurture V;PST;V.PTCP	nurture V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Oakland as a city reflects the amazing diversity of its residents and long history.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reflects	reflect V;PRS;SG;3	reflect V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'For many visitors, the first place they are likely to visit is Downtown, especially if they are in town on business, or simply do not know where to start.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: visit	visit V;NFIN	visit V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The center of transportation by BART and by bus is there, if one wants to branch out.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: wants	want V;PRS;SG;3	want V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'And it is as simple as walking in a direction from there, for the first few neighborhoods, since Old Oakland is along 10th Street, just west of Broadway.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: walking	walk V;PRS;V.PTCP	walk V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Just east of Broadway and continuing north and south is Oakland's famous Chinatown, and that to get the real essence of "Chinatown," Oakland rather than San Francisco is your best bet.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: continuing	continue V;PRS;V.PTCP	continue V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Many of the buildings and streets of Chinatown reflect the diverse nature of its history, in architecture and in the bilingual signs seen throughout the neighborhood.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: reflect	reflect V;PRS;PL;3	reflect V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The curious traveler can venture to take a bus southwards along Broadway, and come to Jack London Square.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: venture	venture V;NFIN	venture V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The unlikely mixture of warehouses and very expensive restaurants and posh atmosphere alongside some of the landmarks of the city's waterfront makes the Square an interesting place to visit and explore, even for locals.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: makes	make V;PRS;SG;3	make V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It's the home of the USS Potomac and the site of the namesake author's residence, still preserved and humbly standing not far from a saloon from the same era.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: preserved	preserve V;PST;V.PTCP	preserve V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'In the evening it buzzes with art galleries, theaters and residents and Bay Area visitors coming into the area to see concerts.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: buzzes	buzz V;PRS;SG;3	buzz V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'A popular area on the weekend with a mixed vibe of hipster and hip hop.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: mixed	mix V;PST;V.PTCP	mix V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It's a burgeoning neighborhood of performing arts ranging from nightclubs to music halls, avant-garde performance art, and even an improv theater company.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: ranging	range V;PRS;V.PTCP	range V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Uptown also has some of the best in the city's vintage architecture, like the Gothic Revival Cathedral Building and the Art Deco Fox and Paramount Theaters, as well as several restaurants.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'North Oakland is a sweeping term, referring to just about everywhere north of Uptown and Lake Merritt.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: referring	refer V;PRS;V.PTCP	refer V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Many of the neighborhoods are commercial centers and absolute heaven for foodies or those who seek quieter surroundings than the hustle and bustle of Downtown and Chinatown.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seek	seek V;PRS;PL;3	seek V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Temescal is a neighborhood that lies north-northwest from Downtown, centered along the reach of Telegraph Avenue, at and near 51st Street.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lies	lie V;PRS;SG;3	lie V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Until the 1960s, a dominantly Italian-American neighborhood, it is now a much more diversified neighborhood, home to many restaurants, including some of the city's best Korean and Ethiopian establishments.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: including	include V;PRS;V.PTCP	include V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Northeast of Temescal and near the Berkeley border lies Rockridge, a neighborhood mixed with family friendly and artistic vibes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lies	lie V;PRS;SG;3	lie V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It has lots of local boutiques and a diverse range of food at all prices and styles.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Open-air markets, bookstores, and a BART station all its own make Rockridge another of many pleasant stops in North Oakland.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: make	make V;PRS;PL;3	make V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'South of Rockridge, and southeast of Temescal lies Piedmont Avenue, a street extending from Broadway near 34th and Hawthorne and an area with a group of hospitals on a hill (Pill Hill) up and through a neighborhood bordered on both sides by picturesque hills, houses and trees.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lies	lie V;PRS;SG;3	lie V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Another of North Oakland's group of foodie spots, home to the city's single Michelin-rated restaurant and many others; cafes, ice cream, coffee shops and pleasant walks complete the vision of this interesting and quiet neighborhood.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: rated	rate V;PST;PL;3	rate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'East along I-580 and not far from Piedmont Avenue are two neighborhoods separated by a couple of blocks.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: separated	separate V;PST;V.PTCP	separate V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Grand Lake and Lakeshore both share a friendly, suburban sort of feel.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: share	share V;PRS;PL;3	share V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The Grand Lake Theater stands at the entrance to the neighborhood that bears its name, a matter of a few hundred feet from Lakeshore Avenue – both are diverse neighborhoods no matter what your budget, be it burgers or sandwiches or a full romantic evening, either of these twin-sister neighborhoods will make a pleasant time, by day or night.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: stands	stand V;PRS;SG;3	stand V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'West Oakland was once a burgeoning working-class neighborhood with its roots tracing as far back as the opening decades of the 19th century.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: burgeoning	burgeon V;PRS;V.PTCP	burgeon V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It has seen a period of decline between the 1960s and the more recent past.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seen	see V;PST;V.PTCP	see V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Strangely, twice in its history the neighborhood has seen benefits from major earthquakes.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seen	see V;PST;V.PTCP	see V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'After the 1906 earthquake, many San Franciscans relocated there, and the industrial development of the 20s and 30s saw its population in the hundreds of thousands.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: relocated	relocate V;PST;PL;3	relocate V;PST;3;PL
Given the context: 'With Loma Prieta in 1989, the effective barrier of the Cypress Street Overpass was destroyed, and the decades since have seen the rebuilding and refurbishing of many of the neighborhood's original Victorian houses, and there is a burgeoning performing arts community growing near the center of the neighborhood.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: destroyed	destroy V;PST;V.PTCP	destroy V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Though there are a few draws for the traveler, West Oakland is dominantly a very poor working-class residential neighborhood with a less than spectacular reputation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'They are either raised coral limestone or coral atolls.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: raised	raise V;PST;V.PTCP	raise V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The beautiful harbour opposite the main town of Neiafu (known as the Port of Refuge Harbour) is a common destination for yachties sailing the South Pacific.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: known	know V;PST;V.PTCP	know V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The waters of the islands are known for their clarity, it being said that you can see the bottom at 40 metres.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: known	know V;PST;V.PTCP	know V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The area attracts many humpback whales between June and November and there are lots of companies organising tours to see them.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attracts	attract V;PRS;SG;3	attract V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'There are numerous places to stay to suit most budgets.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Understand'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Understand	understand V;IMP;2	understand V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Findings of Lapita pottery suggest that early-Polynesians were on these islands close to 3000 years ago.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: suggest	suggest V;PRS;PL;3	suggest V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'These days there are around 20000 people living in the Group.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Neiafu and surrounding villages are home to about a third of the Group’s overall population of around 20000, with the majority of the population living in small villages on the other islands.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: surrounding	surround V;PRS;V.PTCP	surround V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Neiafu is the official port of entry for yachts coming to Vava'u, which attracts over 500 yachts every winter sailing season between June and October.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: coming	come V;PRS;V.PTCP	come V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'A string of islands and reefs along the eastern edge of the Group shelters the area from strong winds and ocean swellS and humpback whales come to these protected waters to give birth.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: shelters	shelter V;PRS;SG;3	shelter V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'between December and April few people visit and many tour companies and restaurants close down.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: visit	visit V;PRS;PL;3	visit V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'It is on the southern point of the main island of Utu Vava'u and has an attractive setting on one of the world's most beautiful harbours.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Neiafu offers all the usual amenities including banks, schools, tour companies, restaurants, cafes and bars, supermarkets, a market and a hospital.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: offers	offer V;PRS;SG;3	offer V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It doesn't have a beach but boats to one of the nearby coral atolls with superb sandy beaches are easily available.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Vava'u has a tropical climate with average temperatures up to 29 ºC in January and down to 24º C in June.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: has	have V;PRS;SG;3	have V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Between November and April, it is more humid and thunderstorms and cyclones do occur.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: occur	occur V;NFIN	occur V;NFIN
Given the context: 'From May to September there are southeast trade winds but during the summer months the winds are from the northeast.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'This is the largest island, where Neiafu is found.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;V.PTCP	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'The island provides a home to eleven indigenous bird species and contains Mt. Talau national park, with some of the limited remaining native vegetation.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provides	provide V;PRS;SG;3	provide V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Tropical vegetation includes the pandanus or screw pine, the casuarina, and the mulberry tree, the bark of which is used to make tapa cloth.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: includes	include V;PRS;SG;3	include V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It can be seen across the water from Neiafu and is connected by land bridge at the most southern point of ‘Utu Vava’u.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: seen	see V;PST;V.PTCP	see V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'There are some good beaches and plenty of secluded cove beaches and protected bays with good snorkelling.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'This is some 35 minutes from Neiafu Harbour and provides the main concentration of humpback whales.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provides	provide V;PRS;SG;3	provide V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'The island lies in deep water and has sheltered waters and bays which provide a resting place for humpbacks with calves.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: lies	lie V;PRS;SG;3	lie V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'How to Grow Beavertail Cactus'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Grow	grow V;NFIN	grow V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The Beavertail Cactus (Opunitia basilares), found primarily in the Mojave Desert and northwest Mexico; can grow to be about 24 inches (60 cm) high; has pads that look like beavertails; and yields red or purple flowers from spring to early summer.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: found	find V;PST;SG;3	find V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Growing Beavertail can be done at any time of year by scattering seeds in a shady bed or, for faster results, planting cuttings in a mix of soil and sand and ensuring that they have a bit of water and plenty of sun.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Growing	grow V;PRS;V.PTCP	grow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Read the following steps to find out how to grow Beavertail cactus.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Read	read V;IMP;2	read V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Purchase Beavertail cactus seeds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Purchase	purchase V;IMP;2	purchase V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'These can be bought at garden centers or purchased online.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bought	be V;PST;V.PTCP	buy V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Scatter the seeds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Scatter	scatter V;IMP;2	scatter V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'In a shady garden bed, simply scatter the seeds on the soil.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: scatter	scatter V;IMP;2	scatter V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'There's no need to cover them, unless you want to use netting to keep the birds off.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: 's	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Keep the soil moist until the seeds germinate.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Keep	keep V;IMP;2	keep V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Make sure that the garden bed is in the shade.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Make	make V;IMP;2	make V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Beavertail cacti seeds need shade to grow, whereas cuttings need plenty of direct sunlight.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: need	need V;PRS;PL;3	need V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Be aware that growing Beavertail cactus from seeds takes much longer than growing one from a cutting.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: growing	grow V;PRS;V.PTCP	grow V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It can take as long as 4 to 4 years before you get flowers.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;NFIN	take V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Obtain Beavertail cuttings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Obtain	obtain V;IMP;2	obtain V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You can purchase them online or at a local garden center.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: purchase	purchase V;NFIN	purchase V;NFIN
Given the context: 'If you already own a Beavertail cactus, you can make your own cuttings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: own	own V;PRS;SG;2	own V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'To do this, choose pads (the flat, oval-shaped sections that make up a cactus) that are 6 months old or older and cut them at the base.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: do	do V;NFIN	do V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In order to form a callous and prevent rot, cure the cuttings by sitting the pad upright in a dry, dark place for 10 to 14 days.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: form	form V;NFIN	form V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Plant the cuttings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Plant	plant V;IMP;2	plant V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Prepare a potting mix that is equal parts soil and rough pumice or sand and fill the appropriate number of pots with it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Prepare	prepare V;IMP;2	prepare V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Make sure there are holes in the center of the base of each pot to allow for good drainage.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Make	make V;IMP;2	make V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Set the cuttings upright in the potting mix about an inch (2.5 cm.) deep.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Set	set V;IMP;2	set V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'If you plant the cuttings too deep, they might rot.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: plant	plant V;PRS;SG;2	plant V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Put some rocks around the pad to anchor it in place.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Put	put V;IMP;2	put V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Choose a spot for your Beavertail cactus cuttings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Choose	choose V;IMP;2	choose V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'If you live in an area with strong summer sun, position the cuttings so that the broad sides of the cuttings face east and west while the slim sides face north and south.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: live	live V;PRS;SG;2	live V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'This will prevent the cuttings from burning during the hottest part of the day.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: prevent	prevent V;NFIN	prevent V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Make sure the spot is sheltered from any cold winter winds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Make	make V;IMP;2	make V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Wait for a month.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Wait	wait V;IMP;2	wait V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Do not water the cutting for the first month.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: water	water V;NFIN	water V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'The moisture in the pad will provide enough nutrients for roots to grow.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: provide	provide V;NFIN	provide V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Too much water might cause rot.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: cause	cause V;NFIN	cause V;NFIN
Given the context: 'After 1 month, roots will have sprouted and you can water the cutting for the first time.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sprouted	sprout V;PST;V.PTCP	sprout V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Always let the soil dry before you water the cuttings.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Once fully rooted, they are extremely drought resistant.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: rooted	root V;PST;V.PTCP	root V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Fertilize the plants.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Fertilize	fertilize V;IMP;2	fertilize V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'During the spring, summer, and fall, the Beavertail cactus grows and will benefit from a balanced fertilizer.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: grows	grow V;PRS;SG;3	grow V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Let the cuttings grow.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Let	let V;IMP;2	let V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'From the first pad, many more will form.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: form	form V;NFIN	form V;NFIN
Given the context: 'The second or third pad will bear some flowers, but wait before harvesting them or you might affect the size of future harvests.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: bear	bear V;NFIN	bear V;NFIN
Given the context: 'How to Get Rid of Mice Naturally'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Get	get V;NFIN	get V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Having mice in your home is both a nuisance and a health hazard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Having	have V;PRS;V.PTCP	have V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'They can cause property damage, create a mess, and produce unpleasant smells.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: cause	cause V;NFIN	cause V;NFIN
Given the context: 'In addition, repelling and removing rodents from your home can be a hassle if you don't know what you are doing.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: repelling	repel V;PRS;V.PTCP	repel V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'It can also be dangerous if you use toxic chemicals and poisons.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;NFIN	use V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'It's a good thing, then, that there are some simple ways to effectively get mice out of your home without the use of toxic chemicals and poisons.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Method 1 Discouraging Mice Naturally'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Discouraging	discourage V;PRS;V.PTCP	discourage V;PRS;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Keep your home clean.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Keep	keep V;IMP;2	keep V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Many times mice are drawn into homes on the search for food.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: drawn	draw V;PST;V.PTCP	draw V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'If there is nothing to eat, mice will be less likely to stay.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: is	be V;PRS;SG;3	be V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'Keep all food stored properly in airtight containers or in places that are safe from mouse attack. [1]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Keep	keep V;IMP;2	keep V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Apply peppermint oil.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Apply	apply V;IMP;2	apply V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'The smell is simply too intense for rodents and they will not try to go near it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: try	try V;NFIN	try V;NFIN
Given the context: 'It also helps to mask the scent of any tasty morsels that have been missed when cleaning.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: helps	help V;PRS;SG;3	help V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'It also gives the house a lovely smell, and is not toxic, unlike many synthetic chemical treatments.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: gives	give V;PRS;SG;3	give V;PRS;SG;3
Given the context: 'You can get peppermint oil in most health food stores and even some major grocery stores. [2]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: get	get V;NFIN	get V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Place a drop or two on a cotton ball.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Place	place V;IMP;2	place V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Place a cotton ball under or near your garbage can to deter mice from getting into it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Place	place V;IMP;2	place V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Place the cotton balls in areas where mice are likely to enter your house, by doorways, or heat vents, etc.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Place	place V;IMP;2	place V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Peppermint oil cotton balls need to be replaced after 5 - 7 days, depending upon the quantity of oil you put on it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: need	need V;PRS;PL;3	need V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Try growing peppermint plants near the entryways.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Try	try V;IMP;2	try V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You can use the mint in cooking, as well as it serving a deterrent purpose.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;NFIN	use V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Use dried snake feces.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Use	use V;IMP;2	use V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Visit a local reptile center, zoo, or pet store and ask for some dried snake poo.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Visit	visit V;IMP;2	visit V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'You can also sometimes find someone who owns a pet snake.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: find	find V;NFIN	find V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Place near entrances and in places where mice seem to go.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Place	place V;IMP;2	place V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'This will keep mice away. [3]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: keep	keep V;NFIN	keep V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Be sure to keep the feces out of the reach of children and pets.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: keep	keep V;NFIN	keep V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Zap mice with ultrasonic sounds.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Zap	zap V;IMP;2	zap V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'There are electronic units sold that emit an ultrasonic beeping sound that rodents hate.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: are	be V;PRS;PL;3	be V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'These work only on a single line of sight, so you need to know the exact path the mice are taking.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: work	work V;PRS;PL;3	work V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'The units may only work for a short time because mice can become used to them. [4]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: work	work V;NFIN	work V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Use a commercial, organic deterrent.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Use	use V;IMP;2	use V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Many companies that specialize in organic garden and home products make mice repellents that are better for the environment than traditional poisons.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: specialize	specialize V;PRS;PL;3	specialize V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Many of these products use natural ingredients, such as peppermint, that are known to be disagreeable to mice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: use	use V;PRS;PL;3	use V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'They will not kill mice but they should keep them out of areas where the product is applied.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: kill	kill V;NFIN	kill V;NFIN
Given the context: 'If you want a specific product, try doing a online search to see where it is available locally.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: want	want V;PRS;SG;2	want V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Get a cat.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Get	get V;IMP;2	get V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'A house cat can take care of the problem.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;NFIN	take V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Cats that spend time outdoors are more likely to hunt to find their own food and may track down that mouse.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: spend	spend V;PRS;PL;3	spend V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Just be aware, not all cats have enough energy, interest or training to hunt mice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;PL;3	have V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Kittens typically have to be taught by the mother to easily become a mouser.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;PL;3	have V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'Well-food indoor kitties might just see the mouse as a toy, and grow quickly bored of it after scaring it half witless.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: food	see V;NFIN	feed V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Shelters and adoption agencies often do not know if a cat is a good mouse hunter, and generally do not test for this.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: know	know V;NFIN	know V;NFIN
Given the context: '"Barn cats" may not be socialized well with humans, although used to hunting mice for food.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: socialized	socialize V;PST;V.PTCP	socialize V;PST;V.PTCP
Given the context: 'Even if you do not have a cat, you can use used kitty litter to deter mice.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;NFIN	have V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Place tubs of used kitty litter around entrances of the house.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Place	place V;IMP;2	place V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'The mice will sniff the smell of cat urine and clear off in a jiffy.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: sniff	sniff V;NFIN	sniff V;NFIN
Given the context: 'If you have a large infestation, a cat may not be enough to totally get rid of it.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: have	have V;PRS;SG;2	have V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'However, once you eliminate the infestation, a cat will probably prevent reinfestation. [5]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: eliminate	eliminate V;PRS;SG;2	eliminate V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Put your trash cans far from your home.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Put	put V;IMP;2	put V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Mice smell garbage and get attracted to your house.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: smell	smell V;PRS;PL;3	smell V;PRS;3;PL
Given the context: 'If you keep the cans away from the house, they are less likely to take up residence in your home.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: keep	keep V;PRS;SG;2	keep V;PRS;2;SG
Given the context: 'Promote the nesting of birds of prey in your yard.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Promote	promote V;IMP;2	promote V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'Build a shelter box in your garden to attract some onto your property.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Build	build V;IMP;2	build V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'This may take some time, but it's worth the effort if you can attract a wild mouse eater to your yard. [6]'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: take	take V;NFIN	take V;NFIN
Given the context: 'Make sure the shelter box has no nails or safety hazards.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: Make	make V;IMP;2	make V;IMP;2
Given the context: 'A family of barn owls can eat many mice in a night!'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: eat	eat V;NFIN	eat V;NFIN
Given the context: 'However, you might attract other types of owls or birds of prey with your nesting box.'
Generate the lemma and morphological tags for the inflected verb: attract	attract V;NFIN	attract V;NFIN

Inverse Task Evaluation (Lemma/MSD):
  Lemma accuracy: 0.9778 (1145/1171)
  Lemma mean Levenshtein distance: 0.0487
  MSD accuracy (exact set match): 0.9564 (1120/1171)
  MSD micro-precision: 0.9820  micro-recall: 0.9825  micro-F1: 0.9822
  Example Mismatches (prediction | gold):
    include V;PRS;V.PTCP | include V;PRS;3;PL
    premier V;PST;V.PTCP | premiere V;PST;V.PTCP
    take V;PST;SG;3 | Teach V;PST;SG;3
    concentrate V;PST;V.PTCP | concentrate V;PST;SG;3
    see V;IMP;2 | see V;NFIN;2
